                                   Final Initial Study and
                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration
                                   East Contra Costa Courthouse
                                   Pittsburg, California
Prepared for:
Judicial Council of California
                                   January 2007

                                   www.erm.com




Delivering sustainable solutions in a more competitive world
TABLE OF CONTENTS


LIST OF FIGURES                                          iv

LIST OF TABLES                                           v

LIST OF ACRONYMS                                         vi

1.0   INTRODUCTION                                        1

      1.1   STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS          1

      1.2   PURPOSE                                       2

      1.3   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE                   3
            1.3.1  Pittsburg General Plan                3
            1.3.2  Railroad Avenue Specific Plan         4

2.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                5

      2.1   PROJECT LOCATION                             12

      2.2   ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING                        13
            2.2.1  Existing Land Uses                    13
            2.2.2  Surrounding Land Uses                 13

      2.3   EXISTING ZONING AND GENERAL PLAN             13

      2.4   PROJECT BACKGROUND                           13

      2.5   PROJECT OBJECTIVES                           14

      2.6   PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS                      14

      2.7   PROJECT APPROVALS                            14

3.0   INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST                            15

      3.1   BACKGROUND                                   15

      3.2   ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED   16

      3.3   EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS          17


                                        i
4.0   ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS                      28

      4.1    AESTHETICS                           28

      4.2    AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES               29

      4.3    AIR QUALITY                          30

      4.4    BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES                 34

      4.5    CULTURAL RESOURCES                   37

      4.6    GEOLOGY AND SOILS                    41

      4.7    HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS      45

      4.8    HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY          48

      4.9    LAND USE AND PLANNING                52

      4.10   MINERAL RESOURCES                    53

      4.11   NOISE                                53

      4.12   POPULATION AND HOUSING               57

      4.13   PUBLIC SERVICES                      59

      4.14   RECREATION                           61

      4.15   TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC               61

      4.16   UTILITIES/SERVICE SYSTEMS            76

      4.17   MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE   80

5.0   REFERENCES                                  81

6.0   REPORT PREPARATION PERSONNEL                82

7.0   INVENTORY OF MITIGATION MEASURES            83
           7.1    Air Quality                     83
           7.2    Cultural Resources              83
           7.3    Noise                           84

8.0   CONSULTANT RECOMMENDATION                   85

                                    ii
9.0    LEAD AGENCY DETERMINATION                             86

10.0   COMMENTS RECEIVED                                     87

11.0   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS                                 88

12.0   OTHER REVISIONS TO THE DRAFT INITIAL STUDY            95




APPENDIX A -- MITIGATION MONITORING PLAN

APPENDIX B -- CALIFORNIA NATURAL DIVERSITY DATABASE SEARCH

APPENDIX C -- CULTURAL RESOURCES SEARCH

APPENDIX D -- TRAFFIC

APPENDIX E -- NOISE MEASUREMENTS

APPENDIX F ­ PUBLIC NOTICE

APPENDIX G ­ MAILING LIST

APPENDIX H ­ CITY OF PITTSBURG COMMENT LETTER




                                  iii
LIST OF FIGURES




                                   (Figures immediately follow the text)

1         Site Vicinity Map

2         Site Detail Map




                              iv
LIST OF TABLES




                                                                           Page

2.1       Pittsburg-Delta Court: Current and Future Court Services            8

4.11-1    Pittsburg General Plan Compatibility Guidelines                    55

4.15-1    Total AM Peak Hour Approach Volumes at Study Intersections         73

4.15-2    Traffic Counts of Courthouse Traffic (Arrivals at Courthouse
          Driveways, Nearby Parking Lots and On-Street)                      74

4.15-3    Trip Generation Due to Two New Courts AM Peak Hour of Adjacent
          Street Traffic                                                     75

4.15-4    Parking Demand Surveys                                             76




                                       v
LIST OF ACRONYMS



         ABAG      Association of Bay Area Governments
         ACM       Abestos-containing materials
         AOC       Administrative Office of the Courts
         BAAQMD    Bay Area Air Quality Management District
         BART      Bay Area Rapid Transit District
         BMPs      Best Management Practices
         CCFPD     Contra Costa Fire Protection District
         CCTA      Contra Costa Transportation Authority
         CCWD      Contra Costa Water District
         CEQA      California Environmental Quality Act
         CHRIS     California Historic Research Information System
         CO        Carbon monoxide
         dB        Decibels
         DDSD      Delta Diablo Sanitation District
         EDR       Environmental Data Resources, Inc.
         EIR       Environmental Impact Report
         GQ        Governmental and Quasipublic
         HVAC      Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
         LOS       Level of Service
         mgd       Million gallons per day
         NPDES     National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
         O3        Ozone
         OSHA      Occupational Safety and Health Administration
         PCC       City of Pittsburg Community Center
         PFCU      Pittsburg Federal Credit Union
         PM2.5     Particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter
         PM10      Particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter
         RDP       Ridership Development Plan
         RWQCB     Regional Water Quality Control Board


                                      vi
S.R. 4   State Route 4
SHPO     State Historic Preservation Officer
SWPPP    Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan




                         vii
1.0   INTRODUCTION



      The Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) is the staff agency of the
      Judicial Council of California (Judicial Council). The AOC is responsible
      for implementation of the Trial Court Facilities Act of 2002, landmark
      designation that shifts governance of California Courthouses from
      California counties to the State. The AOC is preparing this document as
      part of a proposal for a courthouse in eastern Contra Costa County for the
      Superior Court of California, County of Contra Costa.


1.1   STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS

      In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
      (Public Resources Code Section 21000-21177) and pursuant to Section 15063
      of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations, the Judicial Council, acting
      in the capacity of the Lead Agency, is required to undertake the preparation
      of this Initial Study to determine if the project they are proposing would
      have a significant environmental impact. If, as a result of the Initial Study,
      the Judicial Council finds evidence of any aspect of the proposed project
      that may cause a significant environmental effect, the Judicial Council shall
      determine that an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) is warranted to
      analyze project-related and cumulative environmental impacts.
      Alternatively, if the Judicial Council finds that there is no evidence that the
      project, either as proposed or modified to include the mitigation measures
      identified in this Initial Study, may cause a significant effect on the
      environment, the Judicial Council shall find that the proposed project
      would not have a significant effect on the environment and shall prepare a
      Negative Declaration. Such determination can be made only if "there is no
      substantial evidence in light of the whole record before the Lead Agency"
      that such impacts may occur (Section 21080), Public Resources Code).

      The environmental documentation, which is ultimately approved and/or
      certified by the Judicial Council in accordance with CEQA, is intended as
      an informational document undertaken to provide an environmental basis
      for subsequent discretionary actions upon the project. The resulting
      documentation is not, however, a policy document and its approval
      and/or certification neither presupposes nor mandates any actions on the
      part of those agencies from whom permits and other discretionary
      approvals would be required.




      ERM                               1          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
      The environmental documentation and supporting analysis are subject to
      a public review period. During this review, public agency comments on
      the document relative to environmental issues should be addressed to the
      Judicial Council. Following review of any comments received, the Judicial
      Council will consider these comments as a part of the project's
      environmental review and include them with the Initial Study
      documentation.


1.2   PURPOSE

      The purposes of this Initial Study are to:
      1. Identify environmental impacts;
      2. Provide the Judicial Council with information to use as the basis for
         deciding whether to prepare an EIR or Negative Declaration;
      3. Enable the Judicial Council to modify the proposed project, to mitigate
         adverse impacts before preparation of an EIR is required to be
         prepared;
      4. Facilitate environmental assessment early in the design of the project;
      5. Provide documentation of the factual basis for the finding in the
         Negative Declaration that the proposed project would not have a
         significant environmental effect;
      6. Eliminate needless EIRs;
      7. Determine whether a previously prepared EIR could be used for the
         project; and
      8. Assist in the preparation of an EIR, if required, by focusing the EIR on
         effects determined to be significant, identifying the effects determined
         not to be significant, and explaining the reasons for determining that
         potentially significant effects would not be significant.

      Section 15063 of the CEQA Guidelines identifies specific disclosure
      requirements for inclusion in an Initial Study. Pursuant to those
      requirements, an Initial Study shall include:
      1. A description of the project, including the location of the project;
      2. An identification of the environmental setting;
      3. An identification of environmental effects by use of a checklist, matrix,
         or other method, provided that entries on a checklist or other form are
         briefly explained to indicate that there is some evidence to support the
         entries;

      ERM                               2          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
        4. A discussion of ways to mitigate significant effects identified, if any;
        5. An examination of whether the project is compatible with existing
           zoning, plans, and other applicable land-use controls; and
        6. The name of the person or persons who prepared or participated in
           preparation of the Initial Study.


1.3     INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

        Pertinent documents relating to this Initial Study/Mitigated Negative
        Declaration have been cited and incorporated, in accordance with Sections
        15148 and 15150 of the CEQA Guidelines, to eliminate the need of
        voluminous engineering and technical reports within the Initial Study. Of
        particular relevance are those previous EIRs that present information
        regarding descriptions of environmental setting, future development-
        related growth and cumulative impacts. This Initial Study/Mitigated
        Negative Declaration has incorporated by reference the City of Pittsburg
        General Plan. This document was utilized throughout the development of
        this Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration and is available for
        review at the City of Pittsburg's website.1 In addition, an upcoming
        specific plan for the project vicinity was also considered.

1.3.1   Pittsburg General Plan

        The City of Pittsburg's last comprehensive update of its General Plan was
        in 1988. To respond to growth and planning challenges that have
        occurred since adoption of the 1988 General Plan, the City updated
        various elements of it in 1997. The General Plan is intended to be a guide
        for the City's future growth and each element in the plan addresses issues
        related to physical development, growth, and conservation of resources in
        the City's Planning Area. The General Plan elements reviewed in the
        preparation of this document include Air Quality; Drainage, Flooding,
        and Water Quality; Land Use; Transportation; Noise; Health and Safety;
        and Open Space, Youth, and Recreation.




        1 The City of Pittsburg's website can be viewed at http://www.ci.pittsburg.ca.us/
              Pittsburg/Government/Departments/Planning-Building/General+Plan
              +2004.htm.

        ERM                                    3           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
1.3.2   Railroad Avenue Specific Plan

        As a separate project, the City of Pittsburg is in the process of completing
        a Railroad Avenue Specific Plan in response to the Bay Area Rapid Transit
        (BART) District proposal to extend service into eastern Contra Costa
        County (eBART).2 An eBART station is proposed for the intersection of
        Railroad Avenue and State Route 4 (S.R. 4) southeast of the site of the
        proposed project. As a participant in the eBART planning process, the
        City of Pittsburg has agreed to implement a Ridership Development Plan
        (RDP) that focuses on increasing ridership near station areas. To
        implement the RDP, the City will develop the Railroad Avenue Specific
        Plan to explore transit-oriented development opportunities, in the form of
        high-density, pedestrian-friendly development, directly north and west of
        the proposed courthouse.




        2 More information on the Railroad Avenue Specific Area Plan is available at
            http://www.ci.pittsburg.ca.us/Pittsburg/Government/Departments/Planning-
            Building/Railroad+Avenue+Specific+Plan.htm.

        ERM                                4         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
2.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION



      The AOC proposes to construct a replacement courthouse in Pittsburg for
      the Superior Court of California, County of Contra Costa. The court
      consists of five regional service districts. Martinez is the main court
      location, and its court primarily hears unlimited-jurisdiction cases for the
      entire County. The branch court districts are located in Concord,
      Pittsburg, Richmond, and Walnut Creek; these courts primarily hear
      limited jurisdiction cases. The Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse serves the
      entire eastern region of the County.

      Project Purpose

      The eastern region of Contra Costa County is growing rapidly; it includes
      the communities of Pittsburg, Antioch, Brentwood, and Oakley. The
      outdated and undersized Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse in the city of
      Pittsburg currently serves eastern Contra Costa County, but this region
      needs an expanded local courthouse to meet the County's growing
      demand for court services. The existing courthouse provides limited court
      services due to its constrained size and deficiencies. Construction of a new
      courthouse will promote creation of a full-service court that will have
      adequate space for current services and space to offer new services.

      Existing Facility

      The existing courthouse is a one-story building of approximately 23,900
      square feet located next to the City of Pittsburg Civic Center. Contra
      Costa County constructed the existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse in 1952
      as a County services building that included one courtroom. In 1958, the
      court expanded into all former County-occupied areas of the building.
      The County has renovated the building three times since 1971. The
      courthouse building currently contains four courtrooms and a jury
      assembly room that serves as the fifth courtroom.

      There are 113 on-site parking spaces for the public. Judges, sheriffs, and
      some staff park at the rear of the building in a non-secure area.

      The Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse's functional and physical problems
      include:
      ·     The courthouse does not have separate circulation to courtrooms for
            the secure movement of in-custody detainees, court staff, and the


      ERM                                5         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
      public. The circulation patterns place the public, witnesses, jurors, and
      the staff at risk.
·     The building's security from outside threats is minimal. For example,
      large areas of grade-level glazing make the building vulnerable.
·     The building is severely overcrowded. The current facility has only
      23,900 gross square feet; current designs for a new five-courtroom
      facility would have approximately 50,000 gross square feet.
·     Public circulation space is undersized; there is potentially dangerous
      overcrowding in the corridors, and crowded conditions often force the
      public to stand in lines outside the front entrance. Waiting areas at
      administrative counters are undersized and poorly configured; the
      problems at the waiting areas cause lines to form in the public corridor
      and extend almost to the building entrance.
·     There are no interview rooms, and the building lacks adequate waiting
      areas for victims, witnesses, and minors.
·     The jury assembly room is overcrowded and undersized, and the court
      uses it as a courtroom even though the room is not configured for a
      courtroom function. The jury deliberation room is also in poor
      condition and undersized.
·     The building's four holding cells for detainees are in disrepair and are
      inadequate for the volume of in-custody detainee cases handled by the
      court. The holding cells do not provide adequate separations for the
      number of incompatible in-custody detainees coming to this facility.
      In addition, juvenile in-custody detainees must remain on the bus until
      their hearing times because there are no juvenile holding facilities in
      the building. This situation increases potential security risks and
      imposes higher security costs.
·     The building's fire alarm system is old and at the end of its useful life,
      and the building only contains a partial fire-sprinkler system; these
      deficiencies create a potential life safety risk.
·     The Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system is in
      poor condition, improperly sized, and beyond its expected useful life;
      the plumbing system is the original system and in poor condition; and
      the electrical system needs to be replaced to meet current and future
      needs. Outdated HVAC, plumbing, and electrical systems cause
      excessive operation and maintenance costs. The building needs
      additional emergency lighting; the building's lack of adequate
      emergency lighting creates a life safety risk.




ERM                                  6          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Current Court Operations

The Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse operates with five judicial position
equivalents in four courtrooms and a jury assembly room that functions as
a fifth courtroom for the hearing of traffic and small claims cases; the
Superior Court expects to add another judicial position in 2007. The
courthouse has approximately 44 judicial support and Central Clerk staff.
Ten employees of the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department currently
perform duties in the courthouse. Courthouse office hours are 8:00 AM to
3:00 PM on Monday through Friday. The courthouse uses the jury
assembly room for jury selection activities for two days per week in the
early morning before trials begin, and it uses the jury assembly room for
judicial proceedings on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 8:30 AM to
5:00 PM and Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 5:00 PM.

The courthouse judges currently hear the following case types: domestic
violence; civil harassment; juvenile delinquency (involving non-custody;
drug court proceedings); small claims; unlawful detainer; mediations for
small claims, unlawful detainer, and civil harassment; felony criminal;
misdemeanors (including traffic); and non-traffic infractions. Table 2.1
provides a detailed description of the court's current services offered in
the five courtrooms, and the planned case types that the court will
schedule in the proposed new seven-courtroom facility.

The Contra Costa Sheriff's Department currently transports in-custody
detainees to the courthouse via bus. The bus enters the courthouse area
from S.R. 4 using northbound Railroad Avenue and westbound Civic
Avenue to a courthouse parking lot entrance. The bus passes through the
parking lot and along a drive on the eastern and southern sides of the
building to the building's sallyport on the southwestern corner of the
building. The Sheriff's bus stops along the driveway adjacent to the
sallyport, and in-custody detainees enter through a fenced security
entrance. When the bus exits, it passes through the parking lot and enters
onto eastbound Civic Avenue and continues on southbound Railroad
Avenue to S.R. 4.

Currently, the Sheriff's Department brings in-custody detainees to the
courthouse in two shifts of approximately twenty detainees; one bus
delivers the first shift of detainees between 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM and then
returns empty to the County Jail, and a second bus delivers the second
shift of detainees between approximately 11:30 AM and 12:30 PM and
returns to the jail with some of the morning shift detainees. A final bus
travels to the courthouse in the late afternoon and returns all remaining
detainees to the jail.

ERM                               7         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Table 2.1   Pittsburg-Delta Court: Current and Future Court Services

             Court Service or Case     Current Court Services                    Future Court Services
             Type                      (Five Courtrooms)                         (Seven Courtrooms)

                                       Ex parte applications (urgency,
                                       lasts 21 days) & hearing to
             Domestic violence         determine whether to issue a              Same as current court services
                                       Temporary Restraining Order
                                       (lasts up to 3 years)
                                       Ex parte applications (urgency,
                                       lasts 21 days) and hearing to
             Civil harassment          determine whether to issue a              Same as current court services
                                       Temporary Restraining Order
                                       (lasts up to 3 years)
                                                                                 Juvenile drug court, truancy,
             Juvenile delinquency      Juvenile drug court proceedings           juvenile delinquency, low level
             (includes drug court)     (non-custody only)                        in-custody and non-custody
                                                                                 misdemeanors and felonies

                                                                                 Low- medium severity juvenile
                                                                                 dependency cases (child abuse,
             Juvenile dependency       No current court service
                                                                                 neglect, termination of parental
                                                                                 rights)
                                                                                 Hearings regarding dissolution
                                                                                 (divorce), legal separation,
             Family law                No current court service                  nullity, child custody and
                                                                                 visitation, paternity, and
                                                                                 domestic violence
                                                                                 Child support: Initial orders and
             DA Family support         No current court service
                                                                                 enforcement
                                                                                 Assist parties with forms
                                                                                 preparation, case review, and
             Family law facilitation   No current court service
                                                                                 procedural information in all
                                                                                 family law matters

                                                                                 Assist parents in negotiating
             Child custody                                                       mutually acceptable parenting
                                       No current court service
             mediations                                                          plans where possible or
                                                                                 recommend orders
             Small claims              Small claims matters                      Same as current court services

                                       Unlawful detainer (residential and
             Unlawful detainer                                                   Same as current court services
                                       commercial evictions)

                                       Assist parties with small claims,
                                       unlawful detainer, or civil
             Mediations                                                          Same as current court services
                                       harassment cases to negotiate
                                       mutually acceptable agreements
                                       Felony arraignment, non-custody
                                       arraignment, pretrial hearings,           All felony arraignment hearings
             Felony criminal           non-custody trials, in-custody and        (in-custody & out-of-custody)
                                       out-of-custody preliminary                and all preliminary hearings
                                       hearings



            ERM                                         8                JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                           Misdemeanor arraignment,
 Misdemeanors              pretrial, in-custody and out-of-
                                                                  Same as current court services
 (including traffic)       custody trials, and traffic
                           arraignment

                           Infraction arraignment, pre-trial
 Non-traffic infractions                                          Same as current court services
                           hearings, and trials


Proposed Project

The proposed project includes an approximately 4-acre site north of
Center Drive and west of Railroad Avenue. The proposed courthouse will
be immediately adjacent to the southern side of the existing courthouse,
southeast of the City of Pittsburg Civic Center, and southwest of the
buildings occupied by the Pittsburg Unified School District. The project
site includes the following land parcels:
·     Parcel 86-010-018, which is currently occupied by the existing
      courthouse and its parking lot. The State of California acquired this
      parcel and the facilities from the County of Contra Costa in May 2006.
      After completion of the new courthouse, the State of California will
      demolish the existing courthouse and transfer ownership of
      approximately three acres of the parcel 86-010-018's four acres to the
      City of Pittsburg. Although the State will construct new parking areas
      adjacent to the new courthouse, the City of Pittsburg will allow court
      visitors and staff to continue some parking at the existing parking lot.
·     Portions of parcel 86-010-021, which is currently owned by the
      Pittsburg Unified School District; the area includes approximately 24
      parking spaces, landscaping, and parking lot lanes with access to
      Railroad Avenue.
·     Parcel 86-010-007, which is owned by the City of Pittsburg. The parcel
      includes a small building at 2020 Railroad Avenue occupied by the
      Pittsburg Community Center (the "PCC building"), a small building at
      2010 Railroad Avenue occupied by the Pittsburg Federal Credit Union
      (PFCU) building, and portions of a parking lot adjacent to the
      buildings.
·     Portions of Parcel 86-010-022; the project portion of the parcel includes
      approximately 20-30 parking spaces within the parking lot for the City
      of Pittsburg's Civic Center.
The new courthouse will have two stories with a partial basement and
will be approximately 45 feet tall. It will provide approximately 73,500
square feet of space for seven courtrooms, jury assembly rooms, hearing
rooms, judges' chambers, jury deliberation rooms, holding cells for in-
custody detainees, offices for court staff, secure evidence storage, record

ERM                                          9            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
storage, and ancillary support spaces. The front of the building will face
Center Drive. The facility will also include the following features:
·     A secure parking lot for judicial personnel adjacent to the eastern side
      of the building. The lot will have approximately 40 spaces and will
      include an exit-only connection to Railroad Avenue.
·     An access lane will extend from the Civic Center's driveway along the
      northern side of the new courthouse to an exit-only driveway to
      Railroad Avenue. The access lane will be partially below ground-level
      to connect to the courthouse's basement-level sallyport; gates will
      restrict access to the sallyport. The access lane will provide access to
      public parking areas, restricted access to the sallyport, and exit-only
      access to Railroad Avenue from the secured parking area, sallyport,
      and the public parking areas.


·     A public parking lot for approximately 60 cars will cover the western
      portion of site; the lot will have two driveways on the south from
      Center Drive and a driveway on the west from the Civic Center's
      driveway. The AOC will provide signs on northbound Railroad
      Avenue near the Railroad Avenue/Power Avenue intersection to
      direct court visitors to this lot.

·     Another lot for approximately 100 cars will cover the northern portion
      of the site. The lot will have a driveway on the west from the Civic
      Center's driveway, and the lot will connect to the facility's exit-only
      driveway to southbound Railroad Avenue. The AOC will provide
      signs on Railroad Avenue near the Railroad Avenue/Civic Avenue
      intersection and on Civic Avenue to direct court visitors to this lot. A
      walkway will extend from this northern parking lot over the below-
      ground level access lane to the building's sallyport.

·     Some of the courthouse's existing parking lot along Civic Avenue will
      remain available to the Superior Court after the AOC's demolition of
      the existing courthouse and the City of Pittsburg's acquisition of parcel
      86-010-018. Although the AOC intends to construct up to
      approximately 200 parking spaces for the new courthouse, the AOC
      believes the new courthouse requires 280 parking spaces. The City of
      Pittsburg will provide additional parking near the new courthouse on
      City of Pittsburg property so that the sum of the new courthouse's
      parking spaces and City of Pittsburg's courthouse-dedicated spaces
      equals 280 parking spaces.

Construction of the courthouse will include demolition of two buildings
currently owned by the City of Pittsburg on Parcel 086-100-007. In late

ERM                                 10         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
2006, the building at 2020 Railroad Avenue housed the Pittsburg
Community Center, while the building at 2010 Railroad Avenue housed
the Pittsburg Employees Federal Credit Union. The new courthouse will
also eliminate approximately 24 parking spaces in Pittsburg Unified
School District's southern parking lot in parcel 086-100-007 and
approximately 20-30 parking spaces in the City of Pittsburg's Civic Center
parking lot (parcel 086-100-022).

The AOC's project design, contracting, and construction activities include
several measures to avoid environmental impacts. These measures
include:
·     Geotechnical studies to support design recommendations for
      foundation type, grading, pavement design, and other pertinent issues;
      and verify that the site can be developed as planned;
·     Limit construction activities that generate loud noises to the hours
      from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM; locate staging areas and stationary
      equipment as far from Railroad Avenue and the Pittsburg Unified
      School District building as possible; require enclosure of pile-driving
      equipment with an acoustical blanket barrier; and ensure that all
      construction equipment is properly equipped with mufflers,
      maintained, and operated;
·     The project's design will include features to ensure compliance with
      San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Boards' NPDES
      permit requirements, including Provision "C.3" for the governing
      discharges from the municipal storm drain systems of Contra Costa
      County and cities and towns within the County; and
·     Contract provisions that will require the AOC's contractor to receive
      Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) approval of a Storm
      Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and include inspection,
      monitoring, and maintenance of the SWPPP's best management
      practices as outlined in the contractor's bid package.

The new courthouse will operate with seven judicial position equivalents
in seven courtrooms. The AOC projects that the Superior Court will have
approximately 60 judicial support and Central Clerk staff persons in the
new courthouse. In addition, 17 employees of the Contra Costa Sheriff's
Department will perform duties in the courthouse. Courthouse office
hours will remain 8:00 AM to 3:00 PM, Monday through Friday.

The Contra Costa Sheriff's Department will continue to transport in-
custody defendants to the new courthouse using buses. The bus will enter
the courthouse area from S.R. 4 using northbound Railroad Avenue and

ERM                                 11         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
      westbound Civic Avenue to the Civic Center parking lot driveway that
      connects with Civic Avenue. The bus will travel south on the driveway
      past the courthouse parking lots to the new access lane on the northern
      side of the new courthouse. The Sheriff's bus will enter the access lane
      and descend down the lane to a sallyport to unload and pick up
      defendants. When the bus exits, it will continue in the access lane to
      Railroad Avenue, enter southbound Railroad Avenue, and continue to
      S.R. 4.

      As mentioned above, the Contra Costa Sheriff's Department currently
      brings in-custody detainees to the courthouse in two shifts of
      approximately 20 detainees; one bus delivers the first shift of detainees
      between 7:00 AM and 8:00 AM and then returns to the County Jail, and a
      second bus delivers the second shift of detainees between approximately
      11:30 AM and 12:30 PM and returns to the jail with some of the morning
      shift detainees. A final bus travels to the courthouse in the afternoon and
      returns all remaining detainees to the jail. For the new seven-courtroom
      courthouse, the AOC assumes that the Sheriff's Department would
      maintain its current operational pattern, but it would presumably use two
      buses for each shift, transporting a total of approximately 60 in-custody
      detainees per day.

      The AOC expects to begin construction of the new courthouse in late-2008
      and complete construction of the new courthouse in early 2010. The
      Superior Court will remain in the current facility during construction, and
      the court will move from the current courthouse in late 2009. After
      completion of the new building, the project will conclude with demolition
      of the current courthouse and conversion of most of the current
      courthouse property to a parking area.


2.1   PROJECT LOCATION

      The project site is located in the city of Pittsburg, approximately 0.2 mile
      north of S.R. 4. The site is west of Railroad Avenue, south of Civic
      Avenue, north of Center Drive, and immediately east of the City of
      Pittsburg Civic Center located at 65 Civic Avenue. A site vicinity map is
      included as Figure 1. A site detail map is provided as Figure 2.




      ERM                               12         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
2.2     ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING

2.2.1   Existing Land Uses

        The project site is approximately 4 acres and is occupied by the existing
        Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse at 45 Civic Avenue, the PCC building at 2020
        Railroad Avenue, and the PFCU building at 2010 Railroad Avenue.

2.2.2   Surrounding Land Uses

        The following land uses are immediately adjacent to the project site:
        ·     North: Existing courthouse parking and Pittsburg Unified School
              District, followed by Civic Avenue and City Park;
        ·     East: Railroad Avenue, followed by commercial and residential
              properties;
        ·     South: Center Drive followed by Power Avenue, the Pittsburg Public
              Library, and S.R. 4; and
        ·     West: Pittsburg Civic Center and parking lot, followed by Davi
              Avenue.


2.3     EXISTING ZONING AND GENERAL PLAN

        The project site is located in the Governmental and Quasipublic (GQ)
        District within the southern portion of the Railroad Avenue subarea. This
        subarea is characterized as the city's major commercial corridor, with
        community commercial activities dominant in the southern portion of the
        corridor. The General Plan Land Use Diagram designates the project site
        as Public/Institutional.


2.4     PROJECT BACKGROUND

        The existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse is a four-courtroom facility
        located at 45 Civic Avenue in the city of Pittsburg. The Pittsburg-Delta
        Courthouse was originally constructed in 1952. Four renovations
        occurred in 1971, 1988, 1996, and 2002 to two of the courtrooms, the jail
        holding area, and the court clerk's office. The need for additional
        courtroom space and a modernized facility has prompted the decision to
        proceed with the proposed project.




        ERM                               13        JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
      The project will demolish the existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse after
      completion of the new facility. The new East Contra Costa County
      Courthouse will be just south of the parking lot, and its construction will
      require the demolition of two buildings ­ the PCC building and the PFCU
      building.


2.5   PROJECT OBJECTIVES

      The AOC proposes to construct the new courtroom facility adjacent to the
      existing courthouse, which would provide additional courtroom space in
      a modernized structure. The new courthouse will improve the security of
      courthouse employees, with a separate driveway for receiving in-custody
      detainees. In addition, the project proposes to expand on-site parking by
      approximately 170 spaces. The location is also easily accessible from
      Railroad Avenue, a major corridor linking downtown Pittsburg to the
      southern city limits.


2.6   PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS

      The new courthouse will have two stories with a partial basement, will
      face southwards toward Center Drive, and will be approximately 45 feet
      tall. The facility will provide approximately 200 parking spaces, and the
      City of Pittsburg will provide additional parking off-site to ensure a total
      courthouse parking supply of 280 spaces. The southern and eastern
      portions of the courthouse grounds would be landscaped.


2.7   PROJECT APPROVALS

      The Judicial Council of California is responsible for approving the project.
      The courthouse use is consistent with surrounding land uses and the land-
      use designation.




      ERM                               14         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
3.0   INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST




3.1   BACKGROUND



       1.   Project title: East Contra Costa County Courthouse


       2.   Lead agency name and address:

            Judicial Council of California
            455 Golden Gate Avenue
            San Francisco, CA 94102-3660


       3.   Contact person and phone number:

            Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst
            Administrative Office of the Courts
            2860 Gateway Oaks Drive
            Sacramento, CA 95833-3509
            Phone: (916) 263-8865
            Fax: (916) 263-8140
            Email: Jerry.Ripperda@jud.ca.gov


       4.   Project location: The project site is northwest of the intersection of Railroad
            Avenue and Center Drive.


       5.   Project sponsor's name and address:

            Judicial Council of California
            Administrative Office of the Courts
            455 Golden Gate Avenue
            San Francisco, CA 94102-3688

       6.   General plan designation: Public/Institutional


       7.   Zoning: Governmental and Quasipublic (GQ) District


       8.   Description of project: (Describe the whole action involved, including but
            not limited to later phases of the project, and any secondary, support, or off-
            site features necessary for its implementation. Attach additional sheets if
            necessary.)


      ERM                                    15         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
              Refer to Section 2.0, Project Description.


       9.     Surrounding land uses and setting: Briefly describe the project's
              surroundings:
              The following land uses are immediately adjacent to the project site:
                  · North: Existing courthouse parking and Pittsburg Unified School
                      District, followed by Civic Avenue and City Park;
                  · East: Railroad Avenue, followed by commercial and residential
                      properties;
                  · South: Center Drive followed by Power Avenue, the Pittsburg Public
                      Library, and S.R. 4; and
                  · West: Pittsburg Civic Center and parking lot, followed by Davi
                      Avenue.


       10.    Other public agencies whose approval is required (e.g., permits, financing
              approval, or participation agreement.)

              None needed at this time.




3.2   ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED

      The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected
      by this project, involving at least one impact that is a "Potentially
      Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.
      Mitigation measures have been developed to reduce these potential
      impacts to a less-than-significant level. A Mitigation Monitoring Plan is
      presented in Appendix A.

             Aesthetics                                     Land Use Planning
             Agricultural Resources                         Mineral Resources

       9     Air Quality                             9      Noise
             Biological Resources                           Population and Housing

       9     Cultural Resources                             Public Services
             Geology and Soils                              Recreation
             Hazards and Hazardous Materials                Transportation/Traffic
             Hydrology and Water Quality                    Utilities and Service Systems
             Mandatory Findings of Significance




      ERM                                    16            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
3.3   EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

      This section analyzes the potential environmental impacts associated with
      the proposed project. The issue areas evaluated in this Initial Study
      include:
            ·   Aesthetics                            ·    Land Use Planning
            ·   Agricultural Resources                ·    Mineral Resources
            ·   Air Quality                           ·    Noise
            ·   Biological Resources                  ·    Population and Housing
            ·   Cultural Resources                    ·    Public Services
            ·   Geology and Soils                     ·    Recreation
            ·   Hazards and Hazardous                 ·    Transportation/Traffic
                Materials
            ·   Hydrology and Water Quality           ·    Utilities and Service
                                                           Systems

      The environmental analysis in this section makes use of the checklist
      recommended by the CEQA Guidelines for the environmental review
      process. As a preliminary environmental assessment, this Initial Study
      determines whether or not potentially significant impacts exist that
      warrant additional analysis and comprehensive mitigation measures to
      minimize the level of impact. On-site, off-site, long-term, direct, indirect,
      and cumulative impacts are analyzed for the construction and operation
      of the proposed project. The Initial Study poses questions with four
      possible responses for each question:
      ·     No Impact. The environmental issue in question does not apply to the
            project, and the project will therefore have no environmental impact.
      ·     Less Than Significant Impact. The environmental issue in question
            does apply to the project site, but the associated impact will be below
            thresholds that are considered to be significant.
      ·     Potentially Significant Unless Mitigated. The project will have the
            potential to produce significant impacts with respect to the
            environmental issue in question. However, mitigation measures
            modifying the operational characteristics of the project will reduce
            impacts to a less-than-significant level.
      ·     Potentially Significant Impact. The project will produce significant
            impacts, and further analysis will be necessary to develop mitigation
            measures that could reduce impacts to a less than significant level.

      ERM                                 17        JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                               Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                               Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                 Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                               Unless
                                                             Mitigated

 I. AESTHETICS - Would the project:
 a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a
   scenic vista?                                                                                9
 b) Substantially damage scenic resources,
    including, but not limited to, trees,
    rock outcroppings, and historic                                                             9
    buildings within a state scenic
    highway?
 c) Substantially degrade the existing
     visual character or quality of the site                                      9
     and its surroundings?
 d) Create a new source of substantial light
    or glare that would adversely affect                                          9
    day or nighttime views in the area?
  II. AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES: In determining whether impacts to agricultural
 resources are significant environmental effects, lead agencies may refer to the California
 Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997) prepared by the
 California Dept. of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing impacts on
 agriculture and farmland. Would the project:
 a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique
    Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide
    Importance (Farmland), as shown on
    the maps prepared pursuant to the                                                           9
    Farmland Mapping and Monitoring
    Program of the California Resources
    Agency, to non-agricultural use?
 b) Conflict with existing zoning for
    agricultural use, or a Williamson Act                                                       9
    contract?
 c) Involve other changes in the existing
     environment, which, due to their
     location or nature, could result in                                                        9
     conversion of Farmland, to non-
     agricultural use?
 III. AIR QUALITY - Where available, the significance criteria established by the
 applicable air quality management or air pollution control district may be relied upon to
 make the following determinations. Would the project:
 a) Conflict with or obstruct
    implementation of the applicable air                                          9
    quality plan?
 b) Violate any air quality standard or
    contribute substantially to an existing                       9
    or projected air quality violation?

ERM                                       18         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                 Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                 Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                   Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                 Unless
                                                               Mitigated
 c) Result in a cumulatively considerable
    net increase of any criteria pollutant for
    which the project region is non-
    attainment under an applicable federal
    or state ambient air quality standard                                           9
    (including releasing emissions that
    exceed quantitative thresholds for
    ozone precursors)?
 d) Expose sensitive receptors to
    substantial pollutant concentrations?                           9
 e) Create objectionable odors affecting a
    substantial number of people?                                                   9
 IV. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES - Would the project:
 a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either
    directly or through habitat
    modifications, on any species
    identified as a candidate, sensitive, or
    special status species in local or                                                            9
    regional plans, policies, or regulations,
    or by the California Department of Fish
    and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
    Service?
 b) Have a substantial adverse effect on
    any riparian habitat or other sensitive
    natural community identified in local
    or regional plans, policies, regulations,                                                     9
    or by the California Department of Fish
    and Game or US Fish and Wildlife
    Service?
 c) Have a substantial adverse effect on
    federally protected wetlands as
    defined by Section 404 of the Clean
    Water Act (including, but not limited
    to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.)                                                        9
    through direct removal, filling,
    hydrological interruption, or other
    means?
 d) Interfere substantially with the
    movement of any native resident or
    migratory fish or wildlife species or
    with established native resident or                                                           9
    migratory wildlife corridors, or impede
    the use of native wildlife nursery sites?




ERM                                      19            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                  Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                  Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                    Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                  Unless
                                                                Mitigated
 e) Conflict with any local policies or
    ordinances protecting biological
    resources, such as a tree preservation                                                         9
    policy or ordinance?
 f) Conflict with the provisions of an
     adopted Habitat Conservation Plan,
     Natural Community Conservation                                                                9
     Plan, or other approved local, regional,
     or state habitat conservation plan?
 V. CULTURAL RESOURCES - Would the project:
 a) Cause a substantial adverse change in
    the significance of a historic resource as                                       9
    defined in § 15064.5?
 b) Cause a substantial adverse change in
    the significance of an archaeological                            9
    resource pursuant to § 15064.5?
 c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
    paleontological resource or site or                              9
    unique geological feature?
 d) Disturb any human remains, including
    those interred outside of formal                                 9
    cemeteries?
 VI. GEOLOGY AND SOILS - Would the project:
 a) Expose people or structures to potential substantial adverse effects, including the risk
                            of loss, injury, or death involving:
      i) Rupture of a known earthquake
          fault, as delineated on the most
          recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake
          Fault Zoning Map issued by the
          State Geologist for the area or based                                      9
          on other substantial evidence of a
          known fault? Refer to Division of
          Mines and Geology Special
          Publication 42.
      ii) Strong seismic ground-shaking?                                             9
      iii) Seismic-related ground failure,
           including liquefaction?                                                   9
      iv) Landslides?                                                                              9
 b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the
    loss of topsoil?                                                                 9



ERM                                          20         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                 Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                 Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                   Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                 Unless
                                                               Mitigated
 c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that
     is unstable, or that would become
     unstable as a result of the project, and
     potentially result in on- or off-site                                                        9
     landslide, lateral spreading,
     subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse?
 d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined
    in Table 18-1-B of the Uniform
    Building Code (1994), creating                                                  9
    substantial risks to life or property?
 e) Have soils incapable of adequately
    supporting the use of septic tanks or
    alternative wastewater disposal                                                               9
    systems where sewers are not available
    for the disposal of wastewater?
 VII. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - Would the project:
 a) Create a significant hazard to the public
    or the environment through the routine
    transport, use, or disposal of                                                                9
    hazardous materials?
 b) Create a significant hazard to the public
    or the environment through reasonably
    foreseeable upset and accident
    conditions involving the release of                                                           9
    hazardous materials into the
    environment?
 c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle
     hazardous or acutely hazardous
     materials, substances, or waste within                                         9
     one-quarter mile of an existing or
     proposed school?
 d) Be located on a site that is included on
    a list of hazardous materials sites
    compiled pursuant to Government
    Code Section 65962.5 and, as a result,                                                        9
    would it create a significant hazard to
    the public or the environment?
 e) Result in a safety hazard for people
    residing or working in the project area,
    for a project located within an airport
    land-use plan or, where such a plan                                                           9
    has not been adopted, within 2 miles of
    a public airport or public use airport?




ERM                                      21            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                 Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                 Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                   Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                 Unless
                                                               Mitigated
 f) Result in a safety hazard for people
     residing or working in the project area,
     for a project within the vicinity of a                                                       9
     private airstrip?
 g) Impair implementation of or physically
     interfere with an adopted emergency
     response plan or emergency                                                     9
     evacuation plan?
 h) Expose people or structures to a
    significant risk of loss, injury, or death
    involving wildland fires, including
    where wildlands are adjacent to                                                               9
    urbanized areas or where residences
    are intermixed with wildlands?
 VIII. HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY - Would the project:
 a) Violate any water quality standards or
    waste discharge requirements?                                                   9
 b) Substantially deplete groundwater
    supplies or interfere substantially with
    groundwater recharge such that there
    would be a net deficit in aquifer
    volume or a lowering of the local
    groundwater table level (e.g., the                                              9
    production rate of pre-existing nearby
    wells would drop to a level that would
    not support existing land uses or
    planned uses for which permits have
    been granted)?
 c) Substantially alter the existing drainage
     pattern of the site or area, including
     through the alteration of the course of
     a stream or river, in a manner that                                                          9
     would result in substantial erosion or
     siltation on- or off-site?
 d) Substantially alter the existing drainage
    pattern of the site or area, including
    through the alteration of the course of
    a stream or river, or substantially                                                           9
    increase the rate or amount of surface
    runoff in a manner that would result in
    flooding on or off site?




ERM                                       22           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                  Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                  Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                    Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                  Unless
                                                                Mitigated
 e) Create or contribute runoff water that
    would exceed the capacity of existing
    or planned storm water drainage                                                  9
    systems or provide substantial
    additional sources of polluted runoff?
 f) Otherwise substantially degrade water
     quality?                                                                        9
 g) Place housing within a 100-year flood
    hazard area, as mapped on a federal
    Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood                                                                 9
    Insurance Rate Map or other flood
    hazard delineation map?
 h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard
    area structures that would impede or                                                           9
    redirect flood flows?
 i) Expose people or structures to a
     significant risk of loss, injury, or death
     involving flooding, including flooding                                                        9
     as a result of the failure of a levee or
     dam?
 j) Cause inundation by seiche, tsunami, or
     mudflow?                                                                                      9
 IX. LAND USE AND PLANNING - Would the project:
 a) Physically divide an established
    community?                                                                                     9
 b) Conflict with any applicable land-use
    plan, policy, or regulation of an agency
    with jurisdiction over the project
    (including, but not limited to the
    general plan, specific plan, local coastal                                                     9
    program, or zoning ordinance)
    adopted for the purpose of avoiding or
    mitigating an environmental effect?
 c) Conflict with any applicable habitat
    conservation plan or natural                                                                   9
    community conservation plan?
 X. MINERAL RESOURCES - Would the project:
 a) Result in the loss of availability of a
    known mineral resource that would be
    of value to the region and the residents                                                       9
    of the state?




ERM                                        23           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                                                   Potentially   Potentially     Less Than          No
                                                   Significant   Significant     Significant      Impact
                                                     Impact        Impact          Impact
                                                                   Unless
                                                                 Mitigated
 b) Result in the loss of availability of a
    locally important mineral resource
    recovery site delineated on a local                                                             9
    general plan, specific plan, or other
    land-use plan?
 XI. NOISE - Would the project result in:
 a) Exposure of persons to or generation of
    noise levels in excess of standards
    established in the local general plan or                          9
    noise ordinance, or applicable
    standards of other agencies?
 b) Exposure of persons to or generation of
    excessive groundborne vibration or                                9
    groundborne noise levels?
 c) A substantial permanent increase in
    ambient noise levels in the project
    vicinity above levels existing without                                            9
    the project?
 d) A substantial temporary or periodic
    increase in ambient noise levels in the
    project vicinity above levels existing                            9
    without the project?
 e) Exposure of people residing or working
    in the project area to excessive noise
    levels, for a project located within an
    airport land-use plan or, where such a                                                          9
    plan has not been adopted, within 2
    miles of a public airport or public use
    airport?
 f) Exposure of people residing or working
     in the project area to excessive noise
     levels, for a project within the vicinity
     of a private airstrip?
                                                                                                    9




ERM                                           24         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
 XII. POPULATION AND HOUSING - Would the project:
 a) Induce substantial population growth
     in an area, either directly (for example,
     by proposing new homes and
     businesses) or indirectly (for example,                                                   9
     through extension of roads or other
     infrastructure)?
 b) Displace substantial numbers of
    existing housing, necessitating the
    construction of replacement housing                                                        9
    elsewhere?
 c) Displace substantial numbers of people,
    necessitating the construction of                                                          9
    replacement housing elsewhere?
 XIII. PUBLIC SERVICES
 a) Would the project result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the
 provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need for new or
 physically altered governmental facilities, the construction of which could cause
 significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain acceptable service ratios,
 response times or other performance objectives for any of the following public services:
      Fire protection?                                                                         9
      Police protection?                                                         9
      Schools?                                                                   9
      Parks?                                                                     9
      Other public facilities?                                                   9
 XIV. RECREATION
 a) Would the project increase the use of
    existing neighborhood and regional
    parks or other recreational facilities
    such that substantial physical                                                             9
    deterioration of the facility would
    occur or be accelerated?
 b) Does the project include recreational
    facilities or require the construction or
    expansion of recreational facilities that
    might have an adverse physical effect
                                                                                               9
    on the environment?




ERM                                       25        JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
 XV. TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC - Would the project:
 a) Cause an increase in traffic that is                                       9
    substantial in relation to the existing
    traffic load and capacity of the street
    system (i.e., result in a substantial
    increase in either the number of vehicle
    trips, the volume-to-capacity ratio on
    roads, or congestion at intersections)?
 b) Exceed, either individually or                                             9
    cumulatively, a level of service
    standard established by the county
    congestion management agency for
    designated roads or highways?
 c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns,                                9
    including either an increase in traffic
    levels or a change in location that
    results in substantial safety risks?
 d) Substantially increase hazards due to a                                    9
    design feature (e.g., sharp curves or
    dangerous intersections) or
    incompatible uses (e.g., farm
    equipment)?
 e) Result in inadequate emergency access?                                     9
 f) Result in inadequate parking capacity?                                     9
 g) Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or                                  9
    programs supporting alternative
    transportation (e.g., bus turnouts,
    bicycle racks)?
 XVI. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS - Would the project:
 a) Exceed wastewater treatment
    requirements of the applicable                                             9
    Regional Water Quality Control Board?
 b) Require or result in the construction of
    new water or wastewater treatment
    facilities or expansion of existing
    facilities, the construction of which                                      9
    could cause significant environmental
    effects?
 c) Require or result in the construction of
    new storm water drainage facilities or
    expansion of existing facilities, the                                      9
    construction of which could cause
    significant environmental effects?




ERM                                       26      JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
 d) Have sufficient water supplies
    available to serve the project from
    existing entitlements and resources, or                                  9
    are new or expanded entitlements
    needed?
 e) Result in a determination by the
    wastewater treatment provider that
    serves or may serve the project that it
    has adequate capacity to serve the                                       9
    project's projected demand in addition
    to the provider's existing
    commitments?
 f) Be served by a landfill with sufficient
     permitted capacity to accommodate the                                   9
     project's solid waste disposal needs?
 g) Comply with federal, state, and local
    statutes and regulations related to solid                                9
    waste?
 XVII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE - Does the project:
 a) Have the potential to degrade the
    quality of the environment,
    substantially reduce the habitat of a
    fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or
    wildlife population to drop below self-
    sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate
    a plant or animal community, reduce                                                    9
    the number or restrict the range of a
    rare or endangered plant or animal, or
    eliminate important examples of the
    major periods of California history or
    prehistory?
 b) Have impacts that are individually
    limited, but cumulatively
    considerable? ("Cumulatively
    considerable" means that the
    incremental effects of a project are
    considerable when viewed in                                                            9
    connection with the effects of past
    projects, the effects of other current
    projects, and the effects of probable
    future projects.)
 c) Have environmental effects that will
    cause substantial adverse effects on
    human beings, either directly or                                                       9
    indirectly?




ERM                                      27     JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.0              ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS




4.1              AESTHETICS

Would the project:

      a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista?

                 No Impact. The site of the proposed project, and the surrounding area, is
                 flat. There are no scenic vistas in the vicinity of the project site. Therefore,
                 the proposed project would have no impact on scenic vistas.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      b) Substantially damage scenic resources, including, but not limited to, trees, rock
         outcroppings, and historic buildings within a state scenic highway?

                 No Impact. While the site of the proposed project is adjacent to S.R. 4, it is
                 not a designated scenic highway. Other than existing landscaping, there are
                 no natural rock outcroppings or other scenic resources on the site.
                 Therefore, the proposed project would have no impact on scenic resources.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      c) Substantially degrade the existing visual character or quality of the site and its
         surroundings?

                 Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would result in
                 visual changes due to the demolition of three buildings and the
                 construction of the new, two-story East Contra Costa Courthouse and
                 public parking and secured parking areas. The two-story, 45-foot-high
                 courthouse would be taller than surrounding, one-story buildings, and
                 would therefore have greater visibility from surrounding viewpoints.
                 However, the architectural features of the building, including height,
                 color, and massing, are consistent with the features of surrounding
                 buildings. In addition, the project design would conform to all applicable
                 development standards of the Pittsburg Zoning Ordinance. Short-term
                 visual impacts would occur during construction activities from
                 construction debris and equipment. These impacts, however, would no
                 longer exist after project completion. Therefore, impacts to the visual
                 character or quality would be less than significant.

                 ERM                                  28          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      d) Create a new source of substantial light or glare that would adversely affect day or
         nighttime views in the area?

                 Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would create light
                 sources for exterior and interior building lighting and security lighting on
                 courthouse grounds. The duration of lighting would be limited to the
                 evening until early morning hours. All light sources would be shielded to
                 minimize glare impacts on surrounding properties, and landscaping
                 would also block light from these properties. Furthermore, light sources
                 are currently present on the project site from existing institutional
                 buildings. The new courthouse would blend in with the adjacent Civic
                 Center, and would not create a substantial increase in light or glare than
                 already exists. Therefore, light or glare impacts from the proposed project
                 would be less than significant.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.2              AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES

Would the project:

      a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide Importance
         (Farmland), as shown on the maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland Mapping and
         Monitoring Program of the California Resources Agency, to non-agricultural use?

                 No Impact. The site of the proposed project is not designated as Prime
                 Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide Importance. The
                 proposed project site is surrounded by land developed for government
                 and residential uses. Therefore, the proposed project would not result in
                 the conversion of Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of
                 Statewide Importance.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      b) Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a Williamson Act contract?

                 No Impact. The proposed project site is designated as
                 Public/Institutional in the City of Pittsburg General Plan and zoned as
                 GQ. The GQ district is not set aside for agricultural uses. Furthermore,
                 there are no lands under the Williams Act contract in the vicinity of the
                 project site. The proposed project is not expected to have an impact.

                 ERM                                 29          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      c) Involve other changes in the existing environment that, due to their location or nature,
         could result in conversion of Farmland to non-agricultural use?

                 No Impact. The proposed project is consistent with the General Plan and
                 does not involve any changes to the existing environment that could result
                 in the conversion of Farmland to non-agricultural use. The development
                 of the new courthouse would not result in a secondary impact resulting in
                 conversion of farmland in eastern Contra Costa County, including the
                 agricultural corridor east of Brentwood.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.3              AIR QUALITY

Would the project:

      a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable air quality plan?

                 Less Than Significant Impact. The Bay Area Air Quality Management
                 District (BAAQMD) has the primary responsibility for ensuring that the
                 San Francisco Bay Area attains and maintains compliance with federal
                 and state ambient air quality standards. The region is currently in
                 nonattainment with the federal 8-hour ozone (O3) standard and the state
                 1-hour O3 and particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5) standards. Also, prior
                 to 1998, the area was not in attainment with the federal 8-hour carbon
                 monoxide (CO) standard. The region was, however, redesignated in 1998
                 as being in attainment with the national 8-hour CO standard. As a result,
                 the area has air quality plans that address attainment and maintenance of
                 the O3 and CO standards. Regions are not required to have an air quality
                 plan addressing nonattainment with state particulate matter standards.

                 The proposed project would not significantly conflict with or obstruct the
                 implementation of the O3 or CO air quality plans. Construction of the
                 proposed project would generate short-term emissions of O3 precursors
                 and CO through the use of construction equipment burning fossil fuels.
                 According to the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines (dated December 1999),
                 however, short-term O3 precursor and CO emissions from construction
                 equipment are already accounted for in the air quality plans.

                 As part of the proposed project, the number of court rooms would
                 increase from four and a half to seven, and the new building would have

                 ERM                                 30          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           about 50,000 additional square feet. As a result, new vehicle trips would
           be generated, creating new emissions of O3 precursors and CO; however,
           the overall increase is small and land use would remain consistent with
           existing usage. Therefore, the associated small increase in vehicle trips
           would not be expected to significantly impede the attainment or
           maintenance of the O3 and CO standards.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

b) Violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially to an existing or projected air
   quality violation?

           Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. The construction of the
           proposed project would result in short-term emissions of criteria
           pollutants. As stated previously, the emissions of O3 precursors and CO
           from construction activity are already accounted for in the air quality plan
           and thus would not be expected to impede the attainment or maintenance
           of the O3 and CO standards. However, construction activities may result
           in a temporary increase in localized concentrations of PM10 (which
           includes PM2.5) that may impact nearby sensitive receptors (e.g., nearby
           park and residences). PM10 is primarily generated through ground-
           disturbance activities such as grading and vehicles traveling on paved and
           unpaved roads. According to the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, these
           PM10 impacts can be reduced to less than significant levels by applying the
           mitigation measures identified below.

           Construction of the proposed project includes demolition of the existing
           courthouse, the PCC building at 2020 Railroad Avenue, and the PFCU
           building at 2010 Railroad Avenue. The buildings contain various spray-
           applied surfacing materials, thermal system insulation materials, and
           vinyl flooring materials. ERM prepared Phase I environmental
           assessments of the buildings and identified "asbestos-containing
           materials" (ACM) in the buildings (Phase I Environmental Site
           Assessment and Limited Compliance Review of the properties and
           buildings of the Pittsburg Unified School District and City of Pittsburg
           Railroad and Civic Avenue Pittsburg, California). Demolition of the
           buildings could release asbestos into the air if the demolition is performed
           improperly. However, the AOC will require demolition contractors to
           comply with requirements of OSHA, State of California Environmental
           Protection Agency, and BAAQMD for removal and disposal of the of
           ACM materials. As long as the proposed project complies with BAAMQD
           Regulation 11, Rule 2 (Asbestos Demolition, Renovation and
           Manufacturing), impacts from potential asbestos releases are not
           considered to be significant. The rule requires appropriate notification to

           ERM                                  31         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
BAAQMD and the application of measures to control potential releases of
asbestos.

As noted in the discussion of Traffic resources, analysts expect the project
to cause a courthouse-related traffic increase of approximately 30%, which
will add approximately 83 traffic trips during the 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
period. As shown in Table 4.15-1, analysts' traffic counts for Railroad
Avenue during the AM peak hour exceeded 1,500 at the Civic
Avenue/Railroad Avenue intersection and 3,370 for the Power
Avenue/Railroad Avenue intersection. Since the project's projected traffic
increase is trivial compared to existing Railroad Avenue traffic, the
project's traffic-related air quality effects will be trivial in relation to
existing traffic-related air quality effects. After construction, the small
increase in vehicle emissions is not expected to result in significant
impacts to any air quality standards. The increase in O3 precursor
emission would not likely significantly impact the O3 standards. Also, at
nearby intersections, the additional vehicles may increase local CO
concentrations, which are affected by not only the number of vehicles but
by the level of congestion. Additional vehicles, however, would not have
a significant impact on congestion or delay on the nearby roadways.
Therefore, any CO concentration increase is anticipated to be less than
significant.

Mitigation Measures: The following mitigation measures, as
recommended by the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, would reduce PM10
impacts to less than significant levels.
AIR QUALITY 1       During conditions when substantial dust is present,
                    water all exposed soil or apply soil stabilizers to
                    construction areas, parking areas, and staging areas to
                    eliminate substantial dust generation. Locate the
                    staging area away from sensitive receptors (such as
                    the park, homes across Railroad Avenue, and school).
AIR QUALITY 2       Cover any trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose
                    materials or require any trucks to maintain at least 2
                    feet of freeboard.
AIR QUALITY 3       If construction operations carry visible soil materials
                    to paved areas or adjacent streets, sweep the affected
                    paved areas at least once per day.




ERM                              32         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
c) Result in a cumulative considerable net increase of any criteria pollutant for which the
   project region is in non-attainment under an applicable federal or state ambient air
   quality standard (including releasing emissions which exceed quantitative thresholds for
   ozone precursors)?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The region is currently in nonattainment
           with the federal O3 standard and state O3, PM10, and PM2.5 standards. As
           discussed previously, O3 precursor emissions from short-term
           construction activity are already considered in the regional air quality
           plans. Also, as long as the proposed project and any nearby project apply
           the mitigation measures identified in part (b) above, the cumulative
           impacts from short-term PM10 and PM2.5 emissions from construction
           activities are anticipated to be less than significant.

           According to the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, a proposed project that
           emits more than 80 pounds per day of O3 precursors (reactive organic
           gases or oxides of nitrogen) or PM10 during operations is considered to be
           significant. The proposed project would not result in emissions that
           exceed this threshold.

           The slight increase in emissions would cumulatively add to the emissions
           from existing and future development in the region. However, the
           courthouse itself would not result in additional population growth. Also,
           the area is part of a transit-oriented development, so public transportation
           would help offset increases in trips to and from the courthouse.
           Considering the expected small increase in emissions associated with the
           proposed project, the cumulative impacts are anticipated to be less than
           significant.

d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The site of the proposed courthouse is
           approximately 750 feet south of the City Park along Civic Avenue and 200
           feet from the Pittsburg Unified School District building, and the eastern
           edge of the courthouse site is approximately 260 feet from the nearest
           house along Railroad Avenue. The demolition work for the current
           Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse will be approximately 440 feet from the City
           Park, 170 feet from the Pittsburg Unified School District building, and
           approximately 330 feet from the nearest house along Railroad Avenue.
           During construction, the proposed project may result in an increase in
           PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations at these nearby sensitive receptors.
           However, with the application of the mitigation measures identified in
           part (b) above, the impacts are considered less than significant. Also, after
           construction, local CO concentrations may increase at nearby

           ERM                                33          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                 intersections. The minimal increase in vehicles and congestion would not
                 likely result in significant impacts to nearby sensitive receptors.

                 Mitigation Measures: Implement mitigation measures AIR QUALITY 1
                 through AIR QUALITY 3.

      e) Create objectionable odors affecting a substantial number of people?

                 Less Than Significant Impact. During construction, odors may be
                 generated from the exhaust of diesel-powered equipment. However the
                 odors would be temporary in nature and are not expected to significantly
                 affect a substantial number of people. Once the proposed project is
                 constructed, no new sources of odors would be generated. Therefore, the
                 overall impacts from odors are anticipated to be less than significant.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.4              BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES

Would the project:

      a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or through habitat modifications, on any
         species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status species in local or regional
         plans, policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of Fish and Game or U.S.
         Fish and Wildlife Service?

                 No Impact. The proposed 4-acre site is located in a developed area zoned
                 as a GQ District. The project site is near S.R. 4, and is surrounded by land
                 developed for government and residential uses. A park exists to the north
                 of the project site, and consists of open grass areas and trees. However, as
                 confirmed by a search of the California Natural Diversity Database, no
                 species identified as candidate, sensitive, or special status species are
                 known to occur in the immediate area (see Appendix B). Also, there is no
                 riparian habitat, sensitive natural community, or wetland in the vicinity.
                 Furthermore, the proposed site is not suitable to support any candidate,
                 sensitive, or special status species; therefore, the proposed project would
                 have no impact on special status species.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




                 ERM                                  34          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or other sensitive natural
   community identified in local or regional plans, policies, and regulations or by the
   California Department of Fish and Game or US Fish and Wildlife Service?

           No Impact. No riparian habitat or other sensitive natural community
           identified in local or regional plans have been identified on the project site
           or within the vicinity of the proposed project site. Therefore the proposed
           project would not have an impact on riparian or sensitive species.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected wetlands as defined by Section
   404 of the Clean Water Act (including, but not limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal,
   etc.) through direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other means?

           No Impact. As previously mentioned, the proposed project site consists
           of a mixture of parcels that are developed with governmental uses and
           landscaped, and that do not contain any wetlands. Therefore the project
           will not have any impact.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any native resident or migratory fish or
   wildlife species or with established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or
   impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites?

           No Impact. The parcels proposed for development contain existing
           buildings, parking lots, and landscaped areas. No wildlife corridors or
           wildlife nursery sites are known to exist. Therefore the proposed project
           would not interfere with the movement of any wildlife species.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting biological resources, such as a
   tree preservation policy or ordinance?

           No Impact. While the site is landscaped, as previously stated, the site
           does not support any sensitive or riparian habitat or landscaped features
           that are designated as sensitive biological resources. There are no local
           policy or ordinances that apply to the proposed site. The proposed project
           would therefore not conflict with any local policies or ordinances.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


           ERM                                  35          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, or other approved
   local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan?

          No Impact. As previously mentioned, the parcels proposed for
          development contain existing buildings, parking lots, and landscaped
          areas. There is no adopted Habitat Conservation Plan or other approved
          plan that apply to the proposed site. The proposed project would
          therefore not conflict with Habitat Conservation Plan provisions.

          Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




          ERM                                 36         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.5              CULTURAL RESOURCES

Would the project:

      a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of a historic resource as defined in
         § 15064.5?

                 Less that Significant Impact. The proposed project includes demolition
                 of three buildings: the Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse, the PCC building, and
                 the PFCU building. Contra Costa County originally constructed the
                 Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse building in 1952. The building originally was
                 a County services building that contained one courtroom, a methadone
                 treatment center, and other County offices. The Municipal Court took
                 over the building in 1958, but the methadone clinic remained until 1996.
                 The County renovated the building in 1971, 1988, 1996, and 2002.

                 The City of Pittsburg built the PFCU building in 1958 for Contra Costa
                 Water District offices. The City constructed an addition to the building
                 and remodeled the interior in 1982. The City of Pittsburg built the PCC
                 building in 1970. It attached a modular trailer to the northeastern side of
                 the PCC building in 1979. The City of Pittsburg has not made any
                 modifications the PFCU building. Past occupants of the building include
                 Contra Costa Water District, the Greater Pittsburg Chamber of Commerce,
                 and possibly the City Manager.

                 Historical resources include (1) Resources listed in (or eligible for) the
                 State Historical Resources Commission for listing in the California register
                 of Historical Resources (Public Resources Code §5024.1); (2) Resources
                 listed in a local register of historic resources or identified as significant in a
                 historic resources survey; or (3) Any object, building, structure, site, area,
                 place, record, or manuscript that a lead agency determines to be
                 historically significant or significant in the architectural, engineering,
                 scientific, economic, agricultural, educational, social, political, military, or
                 cultural annals of California (Public Resources Code 15064.5)

                 The Pittsburg General Plan Land Use Element does not list the site
                 structures as City-designated historic resources. In addition, a search of
                 the California Historic Research Information System (CHRIS) database
                 concluded that there are no on-site historic resources, as defined in
                 §15064.5 (see Appendix C). However, the Office of Historic Preservation
                 has determined that buildings, structures, and objects 45 years or older
                 may be of historic value. The PCC building is more than 45 years old.
                 Regardless of whether the State or a local agency has identified a resource
                 through listing or a survey, CEQA lead agencies have a responsibility to

                 ERM                                  37         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
use California Register criteria to evaluate resources and make a finding of
the proposed project's impacts to historic resources. These criteria include
whether the resource:
1. Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to
   the broad patterns of California history and cultural heritage;
2. Is associated with the lives of persons important in our past;
3. Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or
   method of construction, or represents the work of an important
   creative individual, or possesses high artistic values; or
4. Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
   prehistory or history.

Architectural Background and Existing Conditions

Contra Costa County originally constructed the Pittsburg-Delta
Courthouse building in 1952. The facility is a low-rise, one-story structure
set back from the street with extensive surface parking between the
building and Civic Avenue. The building is a one-story structure raised
approximately two-feet above grade with extensive glazing, brick veneer,
and a flat roof. The windows and doors are aluminum frame. The low
profile and extensive glazing make the facility appear familiar and
approachable, but it does not posses a civic presence or project a dignified
judicial image.

The building's interior is partitioned by painted drywall and demountable
partitions. Most ceilings are spline acoustical tiles or suspended acoustical
panels. Flooring in high-use area is vinyl asbestos tile and vinyl
composition tile, while flooring in occupied spaces is carpet and sheet
vinyl. Interior doors are generally solid core wood doors and hollow
metal.

The structural features of the PCC and PFCU buildings are similar to the
existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse. After review of the architectural
features and architectural history of the structures, there is no evidence
that the buildings embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period,
region, or method of construction, or represent the work of an important
creative individual, or possesses high artistic values. Therefore, the
project has no impact on architectural-related cultural resources, or the
lives of persons important in our past.




ERM                              38         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           Historical Background

           Contra Costa County originally constructed the Pittsburg-Delta
           Courthouse building in 1952. The building originally was a County
           services building that contained one Municipal Court courtroom, a
           methadone treatment center, and other County offices. The Municipal
           Court took over the building in 1958, but the methadone clinic remained
           until 1996. The Municipal Court handled limited jurisdiction cases. The
           County's Municipal and Superior Courts merged in 1998; the Pittsburg-
           Delta Courthouse continued to serve only limited jurisdiction cases.3 No
           past Municipal Court or Superior Court judges or officers have advanced
           to State-wide office. Since the courthouse has only supported limited
           jurisdiction cases and no apparent relationship with persons important in
           State-wide history or regional history, there is no apparent evidence to
           conclude that the courthouse is associated with events that have made a
           significant contribution to the broad patterns of California's history and
           cultural heritage, is associated with the lives of persons important in our
           past or has yielded or may be likely to yield, information important in
           prehistory or history.

           The list of occupants of the PCC and PFCU buildings include only locally
           related organizations. There is no evidence to conclude that the PCC or
           PFCU buildings are associated with events that have made a significant
           contribution to the broad patterns of California history and cultural
           heritage, are associated with the lives of persons important in our past, or
           have yielded or may be likely to yield information important in prehistory
           or history. Therefore, the project has no impact on event-related cultural
           resources, is not associated with the lives of persons important in our past,
           and has not yielded or is not likely to yield information important in
           prehistory or history.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an archaeological resource
   pursuant to §15064.5?

           Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. The project site is
           almost completely developed. The only undeveloped area is a vacant lot
           on the southwestern portion of the site, and the City has installed storm
           drain lines in the lot and covered the surface of the lot with gravel and




           3 Personal communication, Mr. Ken Torre to Jerry Ripperda, July 10, 2006

           ERM                                    39           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           mulch. Areas surrounding the project site are also developed with
           residential and governmental/institutional uses. Therefore, the possibility
           that archaeological resources exist on the site is remote. However, in the
           unlikely event that previously unidentified cultural resources are
           encountered during construction of the proposed project, AOC would
           comply with Title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 800.6(c) (6)
           by consulting with the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) and
           implementing actions based upon the comments of the SHPO. See the
           mitigation measure below.

           Mitigation Measures:

           CULTURAL RESOURCES 1
                    If cultural resources are exposed during construction of the
                    proposed project, the AOC's contractor will halt
                    construction in that area of the site until a qualified
                    archaeologist performs an evaluation of the find. If the
                    archaeologist determines the find to be significant, the area
                    of discovery shall be protected from disturbance to allow
                    qualified archaeologists and appropriate officials, in
                    consultation with the SHPO, to determine appropriate
                    measures for conserving the resource.

c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological resource or site or unique geologic
   feature?

           Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. As stated in Response
           4.5(a) above, the project site is flat and completely developed except for a
           vacant lot on the southwestern portion of the site. Areas surrounding the
           project site are also developed with residential and institutional uses.
           Therefore, the possibility of paleontological resources existing on the site
           is remote. However, the following mitigation measure is recommended to
           ensure potential impacts to paleontological resources are minimized to a
           less than significant level.

           Mitigation Measures: Implement Mitigation Measure CULTURAL
           RESOURCES 1 above.

d) Disturb any human remains, including those interred outside of formal cemeteries?

           Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. As stated in Response
           4.5(b) and 4.5(c) above, there is a remote chance that human remains exist
           on the site. However, the following mitigation measure is required to


           ERM                                 40          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                 ensure potential impacts to human remains are minimized to a less than
                 significant level.

                 Mitigation Measure:

                 CULTURAL RESOURCES 2
                          If human remains are exposed during construction, all
                          construction activities shall halt in the area of the discovery
                          in accordance with California Health and Safety Code
                          section 7505.5. No further disturbance shall occur to the area
                          until the County Coroner determines the origin and
                          disposition of the remains, pursuant to Public Resources
                          Code 5097.98, and appropriate consultation and treatment
                          are conducted.


4.6              GEOLOGY AND SOILS

Would the project:

      a) Expose people or structures to potential substantial adverse effects, including the risk of
         loss, injury, or death involving:

         i) Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo
            Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the State Geologist for the area or based on
            other substantial evidence of a known fault?

                 Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project site is located in a
                 seismically active area of the San Francisco Bay Area. Historically active
                 trace faults in Contra Costa County include Hayward (20 miles), San
                 Andreas (40 miles), Concord-Green Valley (6 miles), and Clayton Marsh
                 (6 miles). Major earthquakes have previously occurred within the vicinity
                 of the city of Pittsburg and are expected to occur again. Surface rupture is
                 considered most likely to occur along an active or potentially major fault
                 trace. According to the California Geological Survey Alquist-Priolo
                 Earthquake Fault Zoning Map, no designated or potentially active fault
                 trace passes through the subject property. The probability of ground
                 rupture at the proposed project site is highly unlikely. Therefore, the
                 proposed project is not expected to expose people or structures to
                 potential adverse effects.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




                 ERM                                  41          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
ii) Strong seismic ground-shaking?

       Less than Significant Impact. Ground-shaking intensity is measured on
       the Modified Mercalli Scale, which ranges from I (not felt) to XII
       (widespread devastation). The degree of shaking an earthquake will have
       on the proposed project site depends on a number of factors such as the
       location of the fault, distance to the epicenter, size of the earthquake, and
       the geology of the area. The proposed project site is within close
       proximity to active faults and is therefore expected to experience ground-
       shaking if a moderate-size earthquake in the vicinity or a major
       earthquake with an epicenter located at a distance from the proposed
       project site were to occur. According to the distribution of ground-
       shaking intensity mapped by the Association of Bay Area Governments
       (ABAG), in the event of a large earthquake on the Concord-Green Valley
       fault, most of Pittsburg would experience ground-shaking of intensity VII
       on the Modified Mercalli scale, which is associated with non-structural
       damage.4 The AOC's project planning procedures include preparation of
       a Geotechnical Report. Registered geologists and registered engineers will
       prepare the report. The report will describe the methods and results of a
       geotechnical exploration; develop design recommendations for
       foundation type, grading, pavement design, and other pertinent topics;
       and verify that the site can be developed as planned. The AOC's project
       designers will use the Geotechnical Report and other data to: (1) ensure
       that the building's design does not expose people to substantial adverse
       effects related to strong seismic ground-shaking and (2) construct the
       building in conformance with the requirements of the California Building
       Code to withstand any anticipated ground-shaking.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

iii) Seismic-related ground failure, including liquefaction?

       Less Than Significant Impact. Liquefaction occurs when saturated, loose,
       fine-grained sediment temporarily transforms to a fluid-like state due to
       earthquake ground-shaking. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
       conducted for the proposed project site identified the soils in the area as




       4 City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the 21st Century, City of Pittsburg General
              Plan, Health and Safety Element.

       ERM                                       42            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           loam soils known as Antioch and are moderately well drained.5
           Liquefaction hazard in Pittsburg ranges from very low to high. According
           to the Pittsburg General Plan, alluvial fan and terrace deposits that
           underlie most of Pittsburg have low liquefaction potential. ABAG has
           identified areas that are highly susceptible to liquefaction hazards. The
           proposed project site is not located within these lowland areas that are
           susceptible to liquefaction hazards. Therefore the impact is considered to
           be less than significant.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

   iv) Landslides?

           No Impact. The General Plan describes areas susceptible to earthquake-
           induced landsliding; these include steep slopes underlain by weak
           bedrock, particularly on northerly facing hill slides. Furthermore, the
           proposed project site is not in an area prone to landslides. The terrain of
           the proposed project site and surrounding areas is generally flat and there
           are no unusual geomorphic features. Therefore, there is no potential for
           landsliding at the site or in surrounding areas.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required

b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would include
           extensive site preparation and excavation prior to construction. These
           activities may temporarily expose soils to erosion potential. However, the
           proposed project site has flat terrain with a low potential for soil erosion.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable, or that would become unstable as a
   result of the project, and potentially result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral spreading,
   subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse?

           No Impact. The proposed project site is not within a potential
           liquefaction zone or on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable. Given the




           5 A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment was conducted for the PCC and PFCU
                 buildings. The report is on file at the Judicial Council offices.

           ERM                                       43           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           flat terrain of the proposed project site, lateral spreading and subsidence is
           unlikely.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table 18-1-B of the California Building Code
   (2001), creating substantial risks to life or property?

           Less Than Significant Impact. According to the Phase I report prepared
           for the portions of the proposed project site, the site is underlain by loam
           soils known as Antioch. Subsurface soils consist of clay between 17 and
           36 inches below ground surface. These soil types may be characterized as
           expansive. Past construction activities at the site have probably altered
           the soil, particularly the soil material under the impervious surfaces of the
           existing buildings and paved areas.

           The AOC's design process includes a geotechnical analysis and
           preparation of a Geotechnical Report to support design recommendations
           for foundation type, grading, pavement design, and other pertinent topics;
           and verify that the site can be developed as planned. The AOC's design
           will comply with California Building Code (2001) §1804.4 requirements to
           incorporate special provisions for foundation design and construction as
           provided by the Geotechnical Report. Table 18-1-B of the California
           Building Code (2002) classifies the potential expansion of soils as very
           low, low, medium, high, or very high. Since the project site is already
           developed with buildings, landscaping, and storm drains, the AOC cannot
           accurately predict the site's soil horizons and soil properties. However,
           the site's flat terrain and successful construction of the nearby City of
           Pittsburg Civic Center indicate that expansive soil problems will not
           create substantial risks to property or life.

           The AOC's project planning procedures include preparation of a
           Geotechnical Report. Registered geologists and registered engineers will
           prepare the report. The report will describe the methods and results of a
           geotechnical exploration; develop design recommendations for
           foundation type, grading, pavement design, and other pertinent topics;
           and verify that the site can be developed as planned. The AOC's project
           designers will use the Geotechnical Report and other data to: (1) ensure
           that the building's design and construction does not create substantial
           risks to life or property and (2) construct the building in conformance with
           the requirements of the California Building Code to withstand any
           anticipated risks related to expansive soils.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

           ERM                                 44          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
      e) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use of septic tanks or alternative
         wastewater disposal systems where sewers are not available for the disposal of
         wastewater?

                 No Impact. The proposed project does not propose to use septic tanks or
                 alternative waste disposal systems. Sanitary sewer services in the area are
                 currently supplied by the City of Pittsburg and Delta Diablo Sanitation
                 District (DDSD). No further analysis is required.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.7              HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

Would the project:

         a) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment through routine
            transport, use, or disposal of hazardous materials?

                 No Impact. The project proposes the construction of a new courthouse
                 facility that would not require the routine transport, use, or disposal of
                 hazardous materials. The use of materials would be limited to commonly
                 available, routinely used cleaning products and infrequent applications of
                 pesticides and herbicides to landscaped areas.

                 The AOC will comply with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
                 OSHA, State of California Environmental Protection Agency, and
                 BAAQMD requirements; AOC's compliance with these requirements will
                 add additional protections to avoid significant hazards.

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

         b) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment through reasonably
            foreseeable upset and accident conditions involving the release of hazardous materials
            into the environment?

                 No Impact. Refer to Response 4.7(a)."

                 Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




                 ERM                                 45          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or acutely hazardous materials,
   substances, or waste within one-quarter mile of an existing or proposed school?

       Less Than Significant Impact. Pittsburg High School, located at 250
       School Street, is within one-quarter mile of the project site. The materials
       used at the project site would be household cleaning products and
       infrequent application of pesticides and herbicides to landscaped areas.
       However, as stated in Response 4.7(a) above, the operation of the new
       courthouse facility will not involve the use, storage, transport, or disposal
       of hazardous materials. Therefore, the impacts of hazardous emissions
       and handling on the nearby school would be less than significant.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

d) Be located on a site that is included on a list of hazardous materials sites complied
   pursuant to Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a
   significant hazard to the public or the environment?

       No Impact. The project site is not included on a list of hazardous
       materials sites.6 In addition, Environmental Data Resources (EDR)
       provided a recent database search for the eastern portion of the project
       site, at the current location of the PCC and PFCU buildings.7 The site is
       not listed in any of the database searched by EDR. There has been no
       notice of violation, cease and desist order, or the like issued for the site.
       No corrective action, restoration, or remediation has been planned, is
       currently taking place, or has been completed at the site. The subject site
       has not been under investigation for violation of any environmental laws,
       regulations, or standards identified in the databases. Therefore, the
       construction or operation of the proposed courthouse facility would not
       create any impact in this regard.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




       6 As indicated on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency website,
       http://www.epa.gov/enviro/ and the California Department of Toxic Substances
       Control website, http://www.envirostor.dtsc.ca.gov/public/.

       7 The EDR search results are available in a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
       completed for the PCC and PFCU buildings. The report is on file at the Judicial Council
       offices.

       ERM                                   46           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
e) For a project located within an airport land-use plan or, where such a plan has not
   been adopted, within 2 miles of a public airport or public use airport, would the
   project result in a safety hazard for people residing or working in the project area?

       No Impact. The project site is not located within an airport land-use plan
       area or within 2 miles of any airport. Therefore, the project would have
       no impact on safety levels with respect to airports.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, would the project result in a
   safety hazard for people residing or working in the project area?

       No Impact. The project site is not in the vicinity of a private airstrip.
       Therefore, the project would have no impact on safety levels with respect
       to private airstrips.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

g) Impair implementation of or physically interfere with an adopted emergency response
   plan or emergency evacuation plan?

       Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is adjacent to other
       governmental/institutional services, including the City of Pittsburg Police
       Department located at 65 Civic Avenue on the adjacent parcel to the north.
       Since the police are responsible for responding to emergency events,
       traffic associated with evacuation activities may potentially occur in the
       vicinity. However, the traffic associated with courthouse activities is not
       expected to substantially increase above levels currently generated by the
       existing courthouse and City Civic Center. Therefore, any impact to
       emergency evacuation would be less than significant.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

h) Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss, injury, or death involving
   wildland fires, including where wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas or where
   residences are intermixed with wildlands?

       No Impact. Surrounding sites are completely developed. No wildlands
       exist within the project vicinity.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




       ERM                                   47          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.8          HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY

Would the project:

      a) Violate any water quality standards or waste discharge requirements?

             Less Than Significant Impact. The California RWQCB, through the San
             Francisco Bay RWQCB, regulates waste discharges into waters of the State
             through the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
             permit system. An NPDES permit is required for any project that results
             in the creation or replacement other than maintenance of at least 1 acre of
             impervious surface area and has the potential to discharge storm water to
             a water body of the US. Dischargers are required to incorporate facilities
             to treat runoff before it is discharged to storm drains or creeks. All projects
             that result in the creation of over 10,000 square feet of impervious surface
             must show treatment source control measures as set forth in the
             Stormwater C.3 Guidebook, such as producing a Stormwater Control
             Plan. The plan must show how drainage from each impervious area is
             captured and directed to an on-site treatment device. The plan should
             also outline how the treatment device will be operated and maintained.
             To protect creeks from erosion, projects may also be required to detain or
             infiltrate runoff so that peak flows and durations match pre-project
             conditions. The City of Pittsburg participates in a joint municipal NPDES
             with other cities in Contra Costa County under the Contra Costa Clean
             Water Program. The City of Pittsburg requires new development to adopt
             BMPs to minimize runoff of construction debris and sediment into local
             water supplies.

             During construction, short-term water quality impacts may occur.
             Extensive site preparation and excavation may expose loose soil to
             potential erosion, which, if not controlled, could potentially be
             transported to local waterways and result in an increase in suspended
             sediment load. As the proposed project is greater than 1 acre, the project
             would be required to prepare an SWPPP to identify sources of sediments
             and pollution that could potentially affect storm water quality. The
             SWPPP would also identify and implement storm water prevention
             measures to reduce pollution. In addition, as the proposed project creates
             more than 10,000 square feet of impervious surface, it will comply with
             the source control measures as set forth in the Stormwater C.3 Guidebook.
             Therefore, potential water quality and waste discharge impacts from the
             proposed project are expected to be less than significant.

             Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


             ERM                               48         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
b) Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere substantially with
   groundwater recharge such that there would be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a
   lowering of the local groundwater table level (e.g., the production rate of pre-existing
   nearby wells would drop to a level that would not support existing land uses or
   planned uses for which permits have been granted)?

       Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project site is in a
       developed area that does not contribute significantly to the depletion or
       recharge of underground water supplies. Furthermore, the project would
       not intercept an aquifer. Therefore, potential groundwater impacts from
       the proposed project are expected to be less than significant.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or area, including through
   the alteration of the course of a stream or river, in a manner that would result in
   substantial erosion or siltation on or off site?

       No Impact. There are no streams or rivers on or within the vicinity of the
       proposed project site. The proposed project would not alter existing
       drainage patterns at the site.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

d) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or area, including through
   the alteration of the course of a stream or river, or substantially increase the rate or
   amount of surface runoff in a manner that would result in flooding on or off site?

       No Impact. As previously stated, there are no streams or rivers on or
       within the vicinity of the proposed project site, and the proposed project
       would not alter existing drainage patterns at the site.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

e) Create or contribute runoff water that would exceed the capacity of existing or
   planned storm water drainage systems or provide substantial additional sources of
   polluted runoff?

       Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project does not propose
       sufficient impervious surfaces to substantially increase the amount of
       runoff from the site. In addition, the proposed project would adopt BMPs
       to incorporate inlet filtration devices to capture potential pollutants from
       the storm drain runoff and utilize landscape areas for filtration of runoff.


       ERM                                  49          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

f) Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?

       Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project's construction
       contractor shall secure the RWQCB's approval of BMPs to avoid
       degradation of water quality; in addition, the AOC will require inspection,
       monitoring, and maintenance of the SWPPP's best management
       provisions in the contractor's bid package.

       Mitigation Measures: No further mitigation measures are required.

g) Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area as mapped on a federal Flood
   Hazard Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate Map or other flood hazard delineation
   map?

       No Impact. The proposed project does not include habitable
       accommodation. Therefore, the impact is expected to be less than
       significant.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area structures that would impede or redirect
   flood flows?

       No Impact. As discussed above, the site is not within a designated flood
       zone. Therefore, the proposed project would not result in any impacts.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

i) Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss, injury, or death involving
   flooding, including flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or dam?

       No Impact. As previously discussed, the proposed project is not within a
       designated flood area and would therefore not expose people or
       structures to significant risks.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

j) Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?

       No Impact. The Pittsburg General Plan indicates that portions of the city
       adjacent to Suisun Bay are susceptible to potential tsunami or seiche
       inundation. Some coastal inundation and damage could occur if a

       ERM                                  50          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
tsunami or seiche coincided with very high tides or an extreme storm.
The General Plan also indicates that wave height and tsunami run-up is
expected to be small in the interior portions of the San Francisco Bay. The
proposed project area is not adjacent to Suisun Bay; therefore, there is no
potential for the proposed project site to be inundated by a mudflow.

Mitigation Measures: No mitigation is required.




ERM                              51        JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.9          LAND USE AND PLANNING

Would the project:

      a) Physically divide an established community?

             No Impact. The project site is fully developed with the current
             courthouse and other governmental/institutional buildings, except for a
             vacant lot on the southwestern corner of the site. The proposed project
             would be consistent with surrounding governmental and institutional
             uses including the City of Pittsburg Civic Center and the Pittsburg Unified
             School District office. Residential areas occur to the east across Railroad
             Avenue; however, the proposed project would be west of Railroad
             Avenue with other governmental and institutional buildings.

             Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan, policy, or regulation of an agency with
         jurisdiction over the project (including, but not limited to the general plan, specific
         plan, local coastal program, or zoning ordinance) adopted for the purpose of avoiding
         or mitigating an environmental effect?

             No Impact. The proposed project is consistent with the General Plan
             Designation for the site, which is public/institutional uses. The proposed
             project would be replacing an existing courthouse building with a new
             courthouse building and a parking lot. The General Plan allows for such
             uses in the public/institutional planning area.

             Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

      c) Conflict with any applicable habitat conservation plan or natural community
         conservation plan?

             No Impact. The project site and vicinity are fully developed and not
             located in a habitat conservation area or natural community conservation
             area.

             Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




             ERM                                  52          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.10          MINERAL RESOURCES

Would the project:

       a) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral resource that would be of value to
          the region and the residents of the state?

              No Impact. No mineral resources of regional value are known to exist at
              this site.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

       b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally important mineral resource recovery site
          delineated on a local general plan, specific plan, or other land-use plan?

              No Impact. The site is not a delineated mineral resource recovery site.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.11          NOISE

Would the project result in:

       a) Exposure of persons to or generation of noise levels in excess of standards established
          in the local general plan or noise ordinance, or applicable standards of other agencies?

              Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. The Pittsburg
              Municipal Code contains general limitations on noise but does not
              quantify levels that should not be exceeded. On the other hand, the
              Pittsburg General Plan does contain noise policies. The General Plan
              noise mitigation measure 12-P-9 requires projects to limit generation of
              loud noises on construction sites adjacent to existing development to
              normal business hours between 8am and 5pm. The General Plan also
              identifies degrees of acceptable usage for new development depending on
              land use and noise levels (measured as decibels or dB) as shown on Table
              4.11-1. These noise levels are based on daily averages with nighttime
              noise effectively having more weight in the averages. The proposed
              project is adjacent to the Civic Center, residential development, and a
              park. Taking into account the nearby land uses, this table can be used as a
              guide for determining significance thresholds.




              ERM                                   53          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
During construction, short-term noise would be generated from workers
traveling in their vehicles to and from the site and from the use of
construction equipment. While the noise contribution from worker vehicles
would be temporary and small, the noise from construction equipment may
be appreciable. The operation of construction equipment can result in
maximum short-term noise levels ranging from 80 dB to 95 dB. These levels
may be significant depending on the duration, but mitigation measures
would minimize the impacts. For example, following the General Plan
policies, noise levels associated with the construction activities would be
limited to daytime hours (7 AM to 5 PM). Given the short-term nature of
the noise, the impacts would be less than significant with the mitigation
measures below.

After construction is complete, the additional vehicles traveling to the site
would increase noise levels adjacent to nearby roads. However, the
increase would be minimal and thus impacts from the additional vehicles
to the nearby sensitive receptors are expected to be less than significant.




ERM                               54         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Table 4.11-1 Pittsburg General Plan Compatibility Guidelines




             Source: Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the 21st Century, City of Pittsburg General Plan, December 2004.




             ERM                                                  55               JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
       Mitigation Measures: The following mitigation measures would reduce
       construction noise impacts to less than significant levels:
       NOISE 1        Limit generation of loud noises to normal business hours
                      between 8AM and 5 PM.
       NOISE 2        Locate staging area and stationary equipment as far as
                      possible from sensitive receptors (such as the park, the
                      homes across Railroad Avenue, and school).
       NOISE 3        Ensure all construction equipment is properly maintained
                      and operated and are equipped with mufflers.

b) Exposure of persons to or generation of excessive groundborne vibration or
   groundborne noise levels?

       Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. During construction,
       groundborne vibration and noise may be generated by large trucks and
       other heavy equipment during demolition, grading, and construction of
       buildings. Generally, the groundborne vibration and noise would have a
       minimal impact on nearby sensitive receptors. However, at particular
       phases of construction (e.g., demolition), groundborne vibration may be
       excessive. These vibrations would not reoccur when construction is
       complete. Given the short-term nature of the vibrations, construction
       impacts to vibration levels are expected to be less than significant with the
       application of Mitigation Measure NOISE 1, which limits generation of
       loud noises.

       Mitigation Measures: Implement Mitigation Measures NOISE 1 through
       NOISE 3.

c) A substantial permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the project vicinity above
   levels existing without the project?

       Less Than Significant Impact. Appendix D contains the results of noise
       measurements made near the proposed project that help to characterize
       the existing noise levels. The proposed project would result in a small
       increase to nearby traffic and thereby add to the existing noise levels. The
       increase would originate primarily from passenger vehicles that do not
       generate as much noise as large transport trucks. Also, these vehicles
       would likely travel to and from the site during limited times of the day.
       Most of the new arriving vehicles would come during the peak morning
       traffic hour. These vehicles are expected to leave gradually throughout
       the afternoon. Thus the permanent increase in average daily noise levels
       is not anticipated to be significant.


       ERM                                 56          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

       d) A substantial temporary or periodic increase in ambient noise levels in the project
          vicinity above levels existing without the project?

              Potentially Significant Impact Unless Mitigated. The increase in noise
              levels associated with construction of the proposed project may result in
              significant short-term noise impacts to the nearby sensitive receptors as
              discussed in part 4.11(a). The implementation of the part 4.11(a)
              mitigation measures would reduce the impact to less than significant
              levels.

              Mitigation Measures: Implement Mitigation Measures NOISE 1 through
              NOISE 3.

       e) For a project located within an airport land-use plan or, where such a plan has not
          been adopted, within 2 miles of a public airport or public use airport, would the
          project expose people residing or working in the project area to excessive noise levels?

              No Impact. The proposed project is not located within an airport land-use
              plan or within 2 miles of a public airport.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

       f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, would the project expose people
          residing or working in the project area to excessive noise levels?

              No Impact. The proposed project is not located within the vicinity of a
              private airstrip.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.12          POPULATION AND HOUSING

Would the project:




              ERM                                  57          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
a) Induce substantial population growth in an area, either directly (for example, by
   proposing new homes and businesses) or indirectly (for example, through extension of
   roads or other infrastructure)?

       No Impact. The project proposes to construct a new courthouse on an
       approximately 4-acre site. The proposed project would create an increase
       in the number of judicial support and Central Clerk Staff personnel from
       44 current employees to 60, plus an additional 17 employees for the
       County Sheriff's Department. The proposed project would not induce
       substantial population growth or result in a significant increase in
       employment. Therefore, no further analysis is required.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

b) Displace substantial numbers of existing housing, necessitating the construction of
   replacement housing elsewhere?

       No Impact. The proposed project involves construction of a replacement
       courthouse on a site that is currently occupied by an existing courthouse,
       the PCC and PFCU buildings, and vacant land in the southwestern corner
       of the site. Therefore, the proposed project would not displace any
       existing housing.

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Displace substantial numbers of people, necessitating the construction of replacement
   housing elsewhere?

       No Impact. See response 4.12(b).

       Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




       ERM                                 58         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.13          PUBLIC SERVICES

   a) Would the project result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the
      provision of new or physically altered governmental facilities, need for new or physically
      altered governmental facilities, the construction of which could cause significant
      environmental impacts, in order to maintain acceptable service ratios, response times or
      other performance objectives for any of the following public services:

       1) Fire Protection?

              No Impact. The Contra Costa Fire Protection District (CCFPD) Battalion 8
              provides fire protection services to the cities of Pittsburg and Antioch, and
              surrounding unincorporated areas. Pittsburg has four fire stations, with
              two stations in proximity to the project site. Station 84, at 200 E. Sixth
              Street, is approximately 1 mile from the project site. Station 85, at 2555
              Harbor Street, is approximately 1.2 miles from the project site. A 1.5-mile
              response area is considered adequate to ensure 5-minute emergency
              response to all properties.

              The proposed courthouse and parking area would not affect acceptable
              service ratios since the courthouse would not create a substantial increase
              in service needs as compared to the existing facility. In addition, the
              CCFPD would inspect the project plans and provide comments to ensure
              optimal access of emergency vehicles and maximize the performance
              objectives of emergency service personnel. As part of the project's
              compliance with the State Building Code, the AOC's design will include
              the following fire and emergency response measures:
              ·     The project will be designed to include automatic fire sprinklers;
              ·     The project will be designed to include a supervised fire alarm system
                    located in an accessible location with an annunciator per the
                    requirements of the California Fire Code;
              ·     The project will be designed so that access to and around structures
                    will meet all CCFPD and California Fire Code requirements; and
              ·     The project will be designed so that all rooms and buildings will be
                    clearly marked with addresses, and a site directory will be posted at
                    the front entrance to the facility;

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




              ERM                                 59          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
2) Police Protection?

      Less Than Significant Impact. The Contra Costa Sheriff's Department
      will continue to provide security services to the new courthouse facility.
      The AOC and Superior Court will continue to fund the security services.
      The proposed project would not create a substantial increase in the need
      for these services than already exists. Therefore, the project would have a
      less than significant impact with regard to this public service.

      Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

3) Schools?

      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project is to construct a new
      courthouse facility at a site with existing institutional uses. Residential
      development is not a part of the project. Therefore, the project would not
      create a substantially greater need for schools than already exists. The
      proposed project would result in an increase in the number of judicial
      support and Central Clerk Staff Personnel from 44 current employees to
      60, plus an additional 17 employees for the County Sheriff Department.
      The negligible increase in staffing will not create a substantial need for
      school facilities.

      Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

4) Parks?

      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project does not involve
      residential development and will not cause an increase in residential
      housing and the need for additional parks in the surrounding area.

      Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

5) Other Public Facilities?

      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would not
      substantially increase the need for assistance from public facilities or
      agencies to a greater level than that of the existing courthouse. Therefore,
      no significant impacts are anticipated in this regard.

      Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.




      ERM                              60         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
4.14          RECREATION

Would the project:

       a) Increase the use of existing neighborhood and regional parks or other recreational
          facilities such that substantial physical deterioration of the facility would occur or be
          accelerated?

              No Impact. The nature of the activity of the proposed project would not
              result in an increase in the use of neighborhood and regional parks or
              other recreational facilities.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

       b) Include recreational facilities or require the construction or expansion of recreational
          facilities that might have an adverse physical effect on the environment?

              No Impact. See Response 4.14(a)

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.15          TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC

Would the project:

   a) Cause an increase in traffic that is substantial in relation to the existing traffic load and
      capacity of the street system (i.e., result in a substantial increase in either the number of
      vehicle trips, the volume-to-capacity ratio on roads, or congestion at intersections)?

              Setting and Project Background:

              Roadways and Intersections: S.R. 4, Railroad Avenue, Power Avenue,
              California Avenue, and Civic Avenue are the primary roadways serving
              the courthouse. The major intersections affected by traffic traveling to and
              from the courthouse are as follows:
              ·     Civic Avenue/Railroad Avenue
              ·     Power Avenue/Railroad Avenue
              ·     Railroad Avenue/ S.R. 4 Freeway Interchange Westbound Ramps
              ·     Railroad Avenue/S.R. 4 Freeway Interchange Eastbound Ramps
              ·     California Avenue/SR4 Westbound Off-Ramp


              ERM                                   61          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
·     California Avenue/Harbor Street
Motorists traveling WB on SR4 must travel on/through these facilities to
access the courthouse.

Project Background: The existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse operates
with five judicial position equivalents in four courtrooms, and includes a
jury assembly room that functions as a fifth courtroom for the hearing of
traffic and small claims cases. The courthouse has approximately 44
judicial support and Central Clerk Staff, plus 10 employees of the County
Sheriff's Department performing duties in the courthouse. Courthouse
office hours are 8:00 AM to 3:00 PM Monday through Friday. The
courthouse uses the jury assembly room for jury selection activities 2 days
per week (Monday and Thursday) in the early morning before trials begin,
and uses the jury assembly room for judicial proceedings on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday from 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM and on Tuesday and
Thursday from 9:30 AM. to 5:00 PM. Courthouse vehicular activity is at
maximum levels every day in the morning, and at peak levels in the
morning on jury call days (Monday and Thursday mornings).8

The courthouse justices currently hear the following case types: domestic
violence; civil harassment; juvenile delinquency (involving non-custody;
drug court proceedings); small claims; unlawful detainer; mediations for
small claims, unlawful detainer, and civil harassment; felony criminal;
misdemeanors (including traffic); and non-traffic infractions.

Transportation to and from the Courthouse: The Contra Costa County
Sheriff's Department transports in-custody detainees to the courthouse
using buses. The bus enters the courthouse area from the S.R. 4 freeway
using northbound Railroad Avenue and westbound Civic Avenue to a
courthouse parking lot entrance. The bus passes southbound through the
parking lot and along a drive on the eastern and southern sides of the
building to the building's sallyport on the southwest corner of the
building. The Sheriff's bus stops along the driveway adjacent to the
sallyport, and defendants enter through a fenced security entrance. When
the bus exits, it passes northbound through the parking lot and enters
onto eastbound Civic Avenue, continuing to turn right onto southbound
Railroad Avenue to S.R. 4.




8 Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst, Judicial Council of California, Administrative
       Office of the Courts, written statement, May 17, 2006 and personal communication,
       June 5, 2006.

ERM                                     62          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
The Sheriff's Department brings in-custody detainees to the courthouse in
two shifts of approximately 20 detainees; one bus delivers the first shift of
detainees between 7:00 AM - 8:00 AM and then returns empty to the
County jail, and a second bus delivers the second shift of detainees at
approximately 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM and returns to the jail with some of
the morning shift detainees. A final bus travels to the courthouse in the
late afternoon and returns all remaining detainees to the jail.

All other traffic has access to courthouse parking lots adjacent to the
building by using three driveways fronting on Civic Avenue. When the
113-space courthouse public parking lot fills, overflow parking is available
on the adjacent School District parking lot (43 spaces) located immediately
east of the courthouse with access using Civic Avenue, or individuals may
choose to park across Civic Avenue from the courthouse in a 24-space
parking lot serving a City park. In addition, parking is available on-street
along Civic Avenue (an estimated 80 parallel, on-street parking spaces are
available, including both sides of Civic Avenue, within a maximum 4
minutes walking distance of the courthouse).

The project site is currently served by Tri-Delta Transit Routes 70 and 380,
which provide weekday bus service nearby or adjacent to the site. Bus
stops nearest the site are located just east of the courthouse frontage of
Civic Avenue, near the intersection of Railroad Avenue / Civic Avenue,
and fronting the park across the street (directly north of) the courthouse.

Traffic Count Data and Intersection Level of Service (LOS) for Existing and
Future (without project) Conditions and Available Intersection Level of Service
Information

Table 4.15-1 shows existing (May 2006) weekday peak hour traffic counts
obtained from the City of Pittsburg at the four Railroad Avenue
intersections expected to be most impacted by courthouse traffic: Civic
Avenue, Power Avenue, and the S.R. 4 freeway interchange intersections.9
The AM commute peak traffic hour was found to occur from 7:00 to 8:00
AM at the Railroad Avenue intersections with Civic Avenue and the S.R. 4
freeway interchange intersections, and from 7:15 to 8:15 AM at the
Railroad Avenue / Power Avenue intersection. City analysis indicates
that the Railroad Avenue / S.R. 4 freeway Westbound Ramps intersection
is operating acceptably at LOS D during the AM peak hour and the




9 May, 2006 traffic count data was provided by Paul Reinders, Traffic Engineer, City of
      Pittsburg. Counts are shown in Appendix D of this report.

ERM                                    63          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Railroad Avenue / S.R. 4 freeway Eastbound Ramps intersection is
operating acceptably at LOS C during the AM peak hour.10 The City did
not have available LOS analysis results for the Railroad Avenue
intersections with Civic and Power avenues. 11

As noted in Section 1.3.2 Railroad Avenue Specific Plan, the City of
Pittsburg is developing a Railroad Avenue Specific Plan for development
of a potential eBART station at the intersection of Railroad Avenue and
S.R. 4. The City has not completed development of the specific plan or
associated county-wide modeling of the plan's traffic effects; therefore,
this analysis uses data from the most recent Draft EIR 12 prepared for this
area of the City of Pittsburg to provide an indication of future conditions
at intersections where data are available (Railroad Avenue /S.R. 4 freeway
interchange intersections.)13 The EIR analysis indicates that, by 2007, total




10The City of Pittsburg considers midrange LOS D an acceptable service level operation
      for most signalized intersections, except Railroad Avenue intersections with the S.R.
      4 freeway ramps, where LOS E is acceptable. Appendix D provides an explanation
      of the level of service concept and A-F scale describing service levels of operation.

11 Paul Reinders, Senior Civil Engineer, City of Pittsburg, personal communication, July
      6, 2006.

12 Black Diamond Redevelopment Project Draft EIR, May, 2005. Available at
      http://www.ci.pittsburg.ca.us/Pittsburg/Government/Departments/Planning-
      Building/EIR.htm

13The AOC understands that City of Pittsburg staff caution that basing future traffic
projections on a 2005 analysis of conditions at the study intersections is not consistent
with the City's current land use changes that the City is considering for the immediate
vicinity of the Courthouse or the City's on-going modeling of the roadway system related
to these changes; City staff also caution that this study's use of projections made in 2005
cannot be considered an accurate representation of future conditions. However, the
AOC concluded that the City of Pittsburg's development of its Railroad Avenue BART
Specific Plan was too indefinite to allow the AOC to use the plan for future baseline
conditions for this CEQA study. CEQA Guidelines 15145 specify that if a lead agency
makes a thorough investigation and finds that a particular impact is too speculative for
evaluation, the agency should note its conclusion and terminate discussion of the impact.
This study concludes that at this time it is speculative to assess the project's future traffic
effects based on the City's uncompleted traffic projections of its projected Railroad

ERM                                      64            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
approach volumes at the Railroad Avenue / S.R. 4 Eastbound Ramps
intersection will have increased close to 23 percent, and in the same time
period, total approach volumes at the Railroad Avenue / S.R. 4
Westbound Ramps intersection will have increased over 42 percent. Both
intersections will continue to operate acceptably at or better than LOS D
during the AM peak hour.

Counts were conducted of inbound and outbound courthouse traffic on a
Monday morning in June 2006 when the courts were anticipated to
experience high volume inbound traffic and high levels of parking
demand. Peak traffic generation at the courthouse and maximum parking
demand days occur due to jury calls for trial courts and full-schedule
operation of the arraignment court and the traffic court. There are three
trial courts operating in the existing facility, and each court's justice
determines the need for a jury call at the end of the preceding day (i.e., the
judge notifies staff of the need for a jury on a Wednesday afternoon before
the Thursday jury selection day, or on a Friday afternoon before the
Monday jury selection day). Targeting a maximum attendance day (i.e.,
with more than one court requiring a jury) required monitoring court
activities for several weeks. Mondays and Thursdays in early June had
only one jury call for one court, but for purposes of capturing traffic
activity on a peak day, the Initial Study traffic analysts preferred to
capture traffic and parking demand on a day having at least two courts
with jury calls. Monday, 19 June 2006 presented an unusually high traffic-
generating day with substantial jury activity in all three trial courts: one
court had a trial in progress, requiring attendance by an empanelled jury,
and the two other trial courts had jury calls. A jury call for a single court
requires two groups of 12 potential jurors to arrive at the courthouse by
8:30 AM. On the count day, four groups of twelve potential jurors arrived
at the courthouse by 8:30 AM, yielding a truly high-volume jury call day.
On the same day, the remaining other two courts (traffic and arraignment)
were also operating with full schedules.14 Traffic and parking count
results are shown on Table 4.15-2.

Applicable Standards ­ Criterion for Conduct of Full Traffic Analysis and
Minimum Acceptable Intersection Operation



Avenue BART Specific Plan developments. Therefore, this study bases its analyses of
future traffic impacts on the Black Diamond Redevelopment Project Draft EIR data.




14 Mimi Rydel, temporary court scheduler, personal conversation, June 19, 2006.

ERM                                   65           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
The CCTA requires traffic impact analysis for projects generating more
than 100 peak hour trips. In addition, evaluation is required for any
intersection expected to receive more than 50 project trips during the AM
or PM peak traffic hours. This standard is also followed by the City of
Pittsburg.15

The City of Pittsburg General Plan includes a policy that requires that
signalized intersection LOS standards comply with requirements of
Countywide Transportation Measure C, which indicates that LOS D is the
poorest acceptable peak hour operation at the Railroad Avenue
intersections with S.R. 4 ramps and that midrange LOS D (Traffic
Volume/Roadway Capacity is greater than 0.85) is the poorest acceptable
operation at signalized intersections along Railroad Avenue.

Project Impacts:

Proposed Project

The new courthouse would front on Center Drive, a short roadway
segment that connects to Power Avenue (see the Vicinity Map, Figure 1).
The courthouse would operate with seven judicial position equivalents in
seven courtrooms. The AOC projects approximately 60 judicial support
and central clerk staff persons in the new courthouse (this is an increase of
16 over the current level of staffing). In addition, 17 employees of the
County's Sheriff's Department will perform duties in the courthouse (this
is an increase of 7 over the current level of Sheriff's Department staffing).
Courthouse days and hours of operation will remain the same.

The facility would also include the following features:
·     An access lane from the parking lot to a below-ground, secured
      sallyport.
·     Approximately 200 parking spaces on the site plus additional parking
      spaces on nearby property of the City of Pittsburg to provide a total of
      280 parking spaces.
·     The existing courthouse parking lot along Civic Avenue will remain
      available throughout the construction period.




15 Paul Reinders, Senior Civil Engineer, personal communication, June 2, 2006.

ERM                                   66           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Transportation to and from the Courthouse

The Contra Costa Sheriff's Department would continue to transport in-
custody defendants to the new courthouse using buses. The bus would
enter the courthouse parking lot as it does today, using northbound
Railroad Avenue and westbound Civic Avenue. It would proceed through
the public parking lot to access the below-ground-level sallyport to unload
and pick up defendants. The bus would exit using Center Drive directly to
southbound Railroad Avenue, and continue to westbound S.R. 4. The
Sheriff's Department would presumably use two buses for each shift,
transporting approximately 60 in-custody detainees per day.

All other traffic would either access the new courthouse parking lots using
Power Avenue to Center Drive, or continue to access the Civic Avenue
courthouse parking lots using the three driveways fronting on Civic
Avenue. Presumably, parking overflow, if any, could continue to park
on-street along Civic Avenue or make use of the 24-space City Park
parking lot.

The project site would continue to be served by Tri-Delta Transit Routes
70 and 380.

Project Trip Generation and Distribution:

Table 4.15-3 shows maximum anticipated project trip generation during
the peak hour of adjacent street traffic. The proposed project would be
expected to generate, at most, a 30 percent increase in existing traffic at the
courthouse. Although the two courts to be added would represent a 40
percent increase in the total number of courtrooms, the two courts to be
added would not be trial courts requiring jury calls, which are known to
greatly increase the amount of inbound AM peak hour traffic at the
courthouse on the peak traffic-generating days (Monday and Thursday).
Applying 30 percent of total traffic on a maximum-court-activity day as a
conservatively high indicator of the traffic impact of the two new courts, a
maximum of 25 inbound and four outbound new vehicle trips would
result during the AM peak hour of ambient traffic (7:00 ­ 8:00) at the
Railroad Avenue intersections with Civic Avenue and the Railroad
Avenue/S.R. 4 Eastbound and Westbound ramp intersections. During the
AM peak hour of ambient traffic at the Railroad Avenue/Power Avenue
intersection (7:15 ­ 8:15), a maximum of 46 inbound and six outbound new
vehicle trips would result from the two new courts.

Table 4.15-1 shows the courthouse project traffic increment total approach
volume at the four intersections for the relevant peak hour: 7:00 ­ 8:00 AM

ERM                               67         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
peak hour of the Railroad Avenue intersections with Civic Drive and the
S.R. 4 interchange, and the 7:15 ­ 8:15 AM peak hour at the Railroad
Avenue/Power Avenue intersection. Trips were distributed according to
observed patterns of arrival and departure from the courthouse, with the
majority of traffic traveling to and from S.R. 4 using the Railroad Avenue
interchange intersections.

During the 7:15 to 8:15 AM peak hour, as traffic distributes to the local
roadway system, the project's contribution to traffic to study intersections
would be as follows:
·     Railroad Avenue/Civic Avenue intersection: 13 vehicle trips;
·     Railroad Avenue/Power Avenue intersection: 37 vehicle trips;
·     Railroad Avenue/S.R. 4 Freeway Westbound Ramps intersection: 35
      vehicle trips;
·     Railroad Avenue/S.R. 4 Freeway Eastbound Ramps intersection: 17
      vehicle trips.

During both commute peak traffic hours, the anticipated level of AM peak
hour traffic due to the project would fall below the CCTA's 100-vehicle
threshold requiring conduct of a traffic study, and no individual study
intersection would receive in excess of 50 vehicle trips added due to the
project. At most, during the AM peak hour of traffic at the Railroad
Avenue/Power Avenue (7:15 ­ 8:15), the Railroad Avenue /Civic Avenue
intersection would be expected to experience a total of 37 project-
generated trips. Other study intersections would experience less
additional traffic due to the project.

Less Than Significant Impact. The project would be expected to
generate, at most, 46 inbound and six outbound vehicle trips during the
AM commute peak traffic hour of adjacent street traffic.16 The projected
level of AM peak hour traffic due to the project would fall below the
Contra Costa Transportation Authority's (CCTA) 100-vehicle threshold




16 Peak hours of adjacent street traffic are based upon May, 2006 traffic counts conducted
       for the City of Pittsburg.

ERM                                    68           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           requiring conduct of a traffic study,17 and no individual study intersection
           would receive in excess of 50 vehicle trips added during the peak hour
           due to the project. This volume of traffic would not be considered
           substantial in relation to the existing traffic load and capacity of the street
           system. Therefore, no significant impacts are anticipated in this regard.

           As noted previously, the City has not completed development of the
           specific plan or associated county-wide modeling of the plan's traffic
           effects, and this study uses data from the most recent Draft EIR as the best
           available data for the transportation analysis. The absence of future traffic
           data reflecting the City's assumptions for Railroad Avenue-related
           development handicaps this study's analysis; however, the project's
           projected traffic increases represent less than 1 percent of the May 2006
           existing traffic volumes at the S.R. 4 ramps, approximately 1 percent of the
           Railroad Avenue/Power Avenue intersection, and approximately 2
           percent of the Railroad Avenue/Civic Avenue intersection. Since the
           courthouse-related traffic is irregular and variable due to irregular
           patterns of the Superior Court's juror calls and this study's analyses are
           based on an exceptionally high traffic day (due to the court's operation of
           three trial courts on June 19) that is analogous to a worst-case scenario,
           this study concludes that the projected increase in project-related traffic is
           less than significant.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

b) Exceed, either individually or cumulatively, a level of service standard established by the
   county congestion management agency for designated roads or highways?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The CCTA is the County Congestion
           Management Agency. Please see the discussion of CCTA standards in
           section a), above.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns, including either an increase in traffic levels or a
   change in location that results in substantial safety risks?




           17 The Contra Costa Transportation Authority is also the County's designated
                 Congestion Management Agency.
                 http://www.ccta.net/GM/congestion_management.htm

           ERM                                   69           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           No Impact. Expansion of the courthouse would have no impact on air
           traffic patterns or air traffic levels, and would not result in any substantial
           increase in aviation safety.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

d) Substantially increase hazards due to a design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous
   intersections) or incompatible uses (e.g., farm equipment)?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would not be
           expected to result in any increased hazards due to a design feature. The
           new courthouse will face Center Avenue, and the AOC's design will be
           consistent with professional engineer traffic standards. All vehicular
           traffic would continue to access the courthouse using existing roadways.
           Therefore, no significant impacts are anticipated in this regard.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

e) Result in inadequate emergency access?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The AOC's development of the project site
           will conform to recommendations of the Superior Court of California
           (County of Contra Costa), the Contra Costa Sheriff's Department, and the
           West County Fire District to ensure adequate emergency access
           considerations. The West County Fire District would review plans to
           ensure emergency access. The proposed project does not include closure
           of any public through street that is currently used for emergency services,
           and would not be expected to interfere with the adopted emergency
           response plan. Therefore, no significant impacts are anticipated in this
           regard.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

f) Result in inadequate parking capacity?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The current courthouse off-street parking
           supply is 127 spaces, with an additional 147 parking spaces available to
           the courthouse in nearby lots and on-street along Civic Avenue. The
           following provides details of parking currently available to the
           courthouse:
           ·     14 secure spaces (non-public) located on the southern side of the
                 courthouse ­ access from Civic Avenue.



           ERM                                 70         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
·     113 public spaces in large lot fronting the courthouse ­ access from
      Civic Avenue.
·     43 public spaces in the school district parking lot available to the
      courthouse ­ primary access from Civic Avenue.
·     24 public parking spaces in a parking lot serving the municipal park
      located across Civic Avenue (directly north of the courthouse) ­ access
      from Civic Avenue.
·     80 public spaces on-street. These are unrestricted, parallel parking
      spaces along both side of Civic Avenue within nearby walking
      distance to the courthouse (this is an approximate count ­ most spaces
      are not striped.

Table 4.15-4 shows that peak parking demand on a high activity day at the
courthouse was 216 parking spaces. The proposed project would result in
a total on-site (courthouse only) supply of 200 parking spaces, with 80
additional near-by spaces supplemented by the City of Pittsburg (see
Figure 2).18 Future peak day parking demand, with seven courts in
operation, is projected at 281 spaces (a 30 percent increase over the current
peak demand day).19 This level of parking demand could be
accommodated within the proposed 280 on-site and nearby City of
Pittsburg-owned spaces. Therefore, no significant impacts are anticipated
in this regard.

The project will eliminate approximately 30 parking spaces in the parking
lot south of the Pittsburg Unified School District Offices; this lot provides
spaces for the school district offices, the Pittsburg Community Center, and
the Pittsburg employees Federal Credit Union. The City of Pittsburg's
demolition of the buildings housing the Pittsburg Community Center, and
the Pittsburg employees Federal Credit Union will eliminate the parking
demand of these operations, but the AOC believes that Pittsburg Unified
School District Offices staff and visitors have a need for ten to twenty
parking spaces that have been bet by this lot. However, the Pittsburg
Unified School District has another parking lot in parcel 086-007-021 at the




18 Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst, Judicial Council of California, Administrative
       Office of the Courts, personal communication, July, 2006.

19 The City's Off-Street Parking and Loading code (Section 18.78.040) does not include
       parking requirements for courthouses. Therefore, survey data has been used to
       project the parking requirement.

ERM                                     71           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           southeast corner of Civic Avenue and Railroad Avenue. AOC staff has
           observed that when the existing courthouse's lot is not filled, then this
           northern school district lot typically has ten to twenty vacant parking
           spaces. Since the new courthouse's on-site parking lots and the spaces
           provided by the City of Pittsburg (in the current courthouse's parking lot
           or in other City-owned lots) will eliminate courthouse visitors' use of the
           Pittsburg Unified School District`s northern lot, the northern school
           district lot should provide adequate parking space capacity for school
           district staff and visitors to replace the parking spaces lost by removal of
           the southern school district lot. In addition, the new courthouse's parking
           lots will ensure there will continue to be many parking spaces for school
           district visitors along Civic Avenue and in the City of Pittsburg's parking
           lots. The AOC concludes that school district staff and visitors will find
           sufficient parking spaces in the school district's lot north of the school
           district offices.

           The project will also eliminate 20 to 30 parking spaces in the City of
           Pittsburg's Civic Center parking lot. This lot has a capacity of
           approximately 230 public spaces and additional spaces dedicated for use
           by City of Pittsburg staff. The AOC's project will eliminate approximately
           20-30 parking spaces in the Civic Center's parking lot. AOC staff
           monitored parking space availability in the Civic Center lot and found
           that vacant parking spaces exceeded 65 spaces20. The project would
           therefore reduce vacant parking spaces to 35-45 spaces. Therefore, the
           AOC concludes that the project would not have significant parking effects
           for the City of Pittsburg's Civic Center

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

g) Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or programs supporting alternative transportation
   (e.g., bus turnouts, bicycle racks)?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would not be
           expected to conflict with adopted policies, plans, or programs supporting
           alternative transportation. Bus transportation is available to the project
           site today, with a stop near the Civic Avenue courthouse frontage (in the
           southwest quadrant of the Civic Avenue /Railroad Avenue intersection).
           This is not anticipated to change due to the project. Therefore, no
           significant impacts are anticipated in this regard.




           20 Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst, Judicial Council of California, Administrative
                 Office of the Courts, personal communication, December, 2006.

           ERM                                   72           JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
            Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


Table 4.15-1. Total AM Peak Hour Approach Volume at Study Intersection

            (AM peak hour of ambient traffic is 7:00 ­ 8:00 AM, with the exception of the railroad/ power
            intersection where it is 7:15 ­ 8:15)

             Intersection                              Existing (1)           Year 2007                 Project
                                                                         (without Project) (2)       Increment (3)

             Railroad Avenue /Civic Avenue                  1594            Not Available                  13

             Railroad Avenue/Power Avenue                   2086            Not Available                  37

             Railroad Avenue / S.R. 4                       3376                 4,138                     35
             Westbound Ramps/California
             Avenue

             Railroad Avenue/S.R. 4 Eastbound               2665                 3,392                     17
             Ramps


                  (1) May,2006 traffic count data was provided by Paul Reinders, Senior Civil Engineer,
                  City of Pittsburg. Counts are shown in Appendix D of this report.

                    Based year 2007 AM peak hour traffic projections contained the most recent Draft
                  (2)

                  EIR traffic analysis conducted for the City of Pittsburg in the project vicinity (Black
                  Diamond Redevelopment Draft EIR traffic section, prepared by Crane Transportation
                  Group for the City of Pittsburg, May, 2005).

                  (3)Assumes that the newly constructed off-street parking spaces will be the first to
                  fill, thus the majority of arrivals between 7:15 ­ 8:15 are projected to turn left at
                  Power Avenue to access the new courthouse parking lots fronting Center Avenue.

            Source: Traffic counts and parking surveys conducted by Crane Transportation Group




            ERM                                        73             JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Table 4.15-2. Traffic Counts of Courthouse Traffic


                 (Arrivals at Courthouse Driveways, Nearby Parking Lots and On-Street) 19 June 2006

                Time                                           Inbound                             Outbound

                7:00 ­ 7:15                                       4                                      0

                7:15 ­ 7:30                                       8                                      2

                7:30 ­ 7:45                                      20                                      3

                7:45 ­ 8:00                                      51                                      6

                Total Vehicles 7:00 ­ 8:00 AM (1)        Total Inbound: 83                     Total outbound: 11

                8:00 ­ 8:15                                      73                                      8

                Total Vehicles 7:15 ­ 8:15AM (2)         Total Inbound: 152                    Total outbound: 19

                8:15 ­ 8:30                                      53                                     23

                8:30 ­ 8:45                                      42                                     22

                8:45 ­ 9:00                                      43                                     30

                Total Vehicles 8:00-9:00 AM              Total Inbound: 211                   Total Outbound: 83

                9:00 ­ 9:15                                       5                                     18


                (1)Ambient peak hour at Railroad Ave / Civic Avenue and Railroad Ave / SR. 4 Ramps
                Intersections.

                 (2)   Ambient peak hour at Railroad Avenue / Power Avenue.

Source: Traffic counts and parking surveys conducted by Crane Transportation Group




                ERM                                       74             JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Table 4.15-3. Trip Generation Due to Two New Courts AM Peak Hour of Adjacent
            Street Traffic



            Land Use: Two Non-Trial Courts (1)                                Inbound               Outbound

            AM Peak hour at Railroad Avenue intersections with Civic              25                      4
            Avenue and the S.R. 4 Ramps intersections (7:00 ­ 8:00)

            AM Peak hour at the Railroad Avenue intersection with                 46                      6
            Power Avenue (7:15 ­ 8:15)


            (1) The two new courts would not produce calls for juries, and are estimated result in an
            increase of 30 percent of total peak day traffic (Monday or Thursday) with three trial
            courts in operation with jury calls in two courts, one empanelled jury, and the two non-
            trial courts (arraignment and traffic) operating on full schedules.

            Source: Crane Transportation Group




            ERM                                      75             JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Table 4.15-4. Parking Demand Surveys Conducted 19 June 2006


             Time                     Increment of parked cars added to parking lots and
                                      on-street parking areas (1)

             7:00 ­ 7:15              4

             7:15 ­ 7:30              6

             7:30 ­ 7:45              17

             7:45 ­ 8:00              45

             Total Vehicles           Accumulated total parked vehicles: 72
             7:00 ­ 8:00 AM (2)

             8:00 ­ 8:15              65

             Total Vehicles           Accumulated total parked vehicles: 137
             7:15 ­ 8:15AM (3)

             8:15 ­ 8:30              30

             8:30 ­ 8:45              22

             8:45 ­ 9:00              13

                                      Accumulated total parked vehicles (peak parking
                                      demand) 202+ 14(1) = 216

             9:00 ­ 9:15              -13



               14 were cars parked at 7:00 AM, before start of counts. (2) Ambient peak hour at
             (1)

             Railroad Ave / Civic Avenue and Railroad Ave / SR. 4 Ramps Intersections. (3) Ambient
             peak hour at Railroad Avenue / Power Avenue.

             Source: Traffic counts and parking surveys conducted by Crane Transportation Group



4.16         UTILITIES/SERVICE SYSTEMS

Would the project:

   a) Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of the applicable RWQCB?

             Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would create an
             increase in the number of employees (16 additional judicial support and
             Central Clerk Staff Personnel and 17 additional employees for the County
             Sheriff Department). Therefore, the amount of wastewater generated

             ERM                                     76            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
           from the proposed project would be greater than that of the existing
           facility. However, courthouse activities would not result in contaminant
           emissions that would require a higher wastewater treatment level.
           Therefore, the existing wastewater system would be capable of handling
           the wastewater generated from the new facility. Therefore, no significant
           impact is anticipated.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

b) Require or result in the construction of new water or wastewater treatment facilities or
   expansion of existing facilities, the construction of which could cause significant
   environmental effects?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The DDSD currently provides wastewater
           treatment services to the existing courthouse facility, and would also
           provide such services to the new courthouse facility. The new courthouse
           facility would require additional wastewater service needs, given the
           increase in building size and number of employees as compared to the
           existing facility. However, as detailed in its adopted District Master Plan,
           the DDSD plans to expand services to meet the needs projected for the
           General Plan buildout for the cities of Pittsburg and Antioch, and
           unincorporated Bay Point.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

c) Require or result in the construction of new storm water drainage facilities or expansion
   of existing facilities, the construction of which would cause significant environmental
   effects?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is currently developed
           with three buildings and a parking lot. The new courthouse facility
           would also include impervious surfaces. However, the project also
           proposes open, landscaped areas that would reduce storm water runoff
           into the sewer system. In addition, the new courthouse is not expected to
           generate more storm water runoff than the existing site. Therefore, no
           significant impacts would result due to implementation of the proposed
           project. The project would also be required to comply with NPDES
           regulations, ensuring that impacts to storm water drainage systems are
           minimized.

           Mitigation Measures. No mitigation measures are required.




           ERM                                 77          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
d) Have sufficient water supplies available to serve the project from existing entitlements
   and resources, or are new or expanded entitlements needed?

           Less Than Significant Impact. The City of Pittsburg obtains raw water
           from the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD) through the Contra Costa
           Canal as part of the Central Valley Project. In addition, CCWD has water
           rights with a number of local districts and private entities, such as the East
           Contra Costa Irrigation District. These water sources add up to 242,700
           acre-feet per year for the CCWD's annual water supply. The City also
           obtains water from two wells, which yield an additional 1,500 acre-feet
           per year.

           The Pittsburg General Plan21 provides policies to ensure that water
           supply facilities are constructed in proportion to urban development
           through 2020. Given the scope and size of the proposed project, it is not
           expected to require additional water supply needs than what has already
           been anticipated in the General Plan.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

e) Result in a determination by the wastewater treatment provider that serves or may serve
   the project that it has adequate capacity to serve the project's projected demand in
   addition to the provider's existing commitments?

            Less Than Significant Impact. The City of Pittsburg and the DDSD
           would provide sanitary sewer services to the project site. The DDSD
           treatment plant, located north of Pittsburg-Antioch Highway, just east of
           Pittsburg city limits, has the capacity to treat approximately 16.5 million
           gallons per day (mgd).22 Total wastewater flow in 2020 is projected to be
           approximately 6.5 mgd with buildout of the city.23 Therefore, the
           sanitation district is fully capable of meeting the demands in the future, in
           addition to providing wastewater treatment services to the project site.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.



           21 City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the Future, City of Pittsburg General Plan,
                 Growth Management Element, p. 3-1.
           22 City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the Future, City of Pittsburg General Plan,
                Public Facilities Element, p. 11-3.
           23 City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the Future, City of Pittsburg General Plan,
                Public Facilities Element, p. 11-9.

           ERM                                       78            JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
f) Be served by a landfill with sufficient permitted capacity to accommodate the project's
   solid waste disposal needs?

           Less Than Significant Impact: Pittsburg Disposal Services is in charge of
           picking up solid waste for the city. Residential and commercial solid
           waste is disposed of at Potrero Hills Landfill east of Suisun City, and non-
           recyclable industrial waste is transported to Keller Canyon Landfill,
           southeast of city limits. While the Portrero Hills Landfill was at full
           capacity in 1996, there have been recent plans to expand the facility and an
           environmental review is taking place. The Keller Canyon Landfill has the
           capacity to receive non-recyclable industrial waste until 2030. Therefore,
           the landfill has enough capacity to receive solid waste from the proposed
           project site. In addition, solid waste generation at the site would be
           minimized through the following measures:
           ·     The project design will incorporate recycling programs through the
                 designation of space and facilities for recycling activities, including an
                 area for recyclable waste to be stored and adequate passage for pick-
                 up vehicles.
           ·     Plants that are less susceptible to drought will be planted for
                 landscaping, which decrease maintenance activities and yard waste
                 that would otherwise be sent to landfills.
           ·     The occupants of the courthouse facility will be informed of recycling
                 programs and encouraged to recycle such items as newspapers, glass
                 bottles, aluminum, and metal cans.

           Given that there is adequate landfill capacity and measures would be
           taken to minimize solid waste disposal, the impacts with respect to solid
           waste disposal services are expected to be less than significant.

           Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.

g) Comply with federal, state, and local statutes and regulations related to solid waste?

           Less Than Significant Impact: Adequate solid waste storage areas at the
           project site would be designated, and waste would be stored in containers
           in a manner that complies with federal, state, and local statutes and
           regulations. Solid waste collection vehicles would be given adequate
           access to the waste storage area. In addition, the project developer(s)
           would take any necessary measures to comply with California Code of
           Regulations, State Department of Health Services, Pittsburg Disposal
           Services, and the BAAQMD, with respect to handling and disposal of



           ERM                                  79         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
              hazardous materials. Therefore, no significant impacts are anticipated
              with respect to compliance with statutes and regulations.

              Mitigation Measures: No mitigation measures are required.


4.17          MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE

Does the project:

   a) Have the potential to degrade the quality of the environment, substantially reduce the
      habitat of a fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife population to drop below self-
      sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal community, reduce the number
      or restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant or animal, or eliminate important
      examples of the major periods of California history or prehistory?

              No Impact. The proposed project does not contain any endangered plant
              or animal species, or cultural or historic resources. Therefore, this
              proposed project does not have the potential to have an adverse impact on
              the environment.

   b) Have impacts that are individually limited, but cumulatively considerable?
      ("Cumulatively considerable" means that the incremental effects of a project are
      considerable when viewed in connection with the effects of past projects, the effects of
      other current projects, and the effects of probable future projects.)

              No Impact. The proposed project is consistent with the City's General
              Plan and the analysis did not identify any cumulatively considerable
              impacts related to this project. The proposed project would not result in a
              significant impact.

   c) Have environmental effects that will cause substantial adverse effects on human beings,
      either directly or indirectly?

              No Impact. Other than the impacts identified and mitigated above, the
              proposed project has no foreseeable substantial effects on human beings.




              ERM                                   80          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
5.0   REFERENCES



      California Air Resources Board, 2004 Revision to the California State
            Implementation Plan for Carbon Monoxide, 22 July 2004.
      California Air Resources Board website
            (http://www.arb.ca.gov/desig/adm/adm.htm.)
      City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the 21st Century, City of
            Pittsburg General Plan, Land Use Element, 2004.
      City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the 21st Century, City of
            Pittsburg General Plan, Health and Safety Element, 2004.
      City of Pittsburg, Pittsburg 2020: A Vision for the 21st Century, City of
            Pittsburg General Plan, Open Space, Youth and Recreation, September
            2004.
      California Department of Conservation ­ Divisions of Mine and Geology,
            Fault Activity Map of California and Adjacent Area, 1994.
      RBF Consulting, Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate District, Division Three
           replacement Project, October 26, 2004.
      Department of Toxic Substances Control, Dow-Pittsburg Chemical
           Company RCRA Hazardous Waste Storage Permit Renewal,
           November 2003.
      CDMG Maps of Known Active Fault, Near-Source Zones in California and
         Adjacent portions of Nevada, 1998.
      Federal Emergency Management Agency, FIRM Flood Insurance Rate
           Map Community Panel Number 0600330004E.




      ERM                                81          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
6.0   REPORT PREPARATION PERSONNEL




      Judicial Council of California
      Administrative Office of the Courts
      2860 Gateway Oaks Drive
      Sacramento, CA 95833-3509

      Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst
      Office of Court Construction and Management

      ERM-West, Inc.
      1777 Botelho Drive, Suite 260
      Walnut Creek, CA 94596

      James Jordan, Program Director
      Rick Shih, Senior Environmental Engineer
      Jeanne Levine, Environmental Scientist
      Tarisai Garande, Environmental Scientist

      Crane Transportation Group
      6220 Bay View Avenue
      San Pablo, CA 94806

      Mark Crane, P.E.
      Principal, Director of Transportation Engineering
      Carolyn Cole, AICP
      Principal, Director of Transportation Planning




      ERM                             82         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
7.0   INVENTORY OF MITIGATION MEASURES




7.1   Air Quality



      AIR QUALITY 1        During conditions when substantial dust is present,
                           water all exposed soil or apply soil stabilizers to
                           construction areas, parking areas, and staging areas to
                           eliminate substantial dust generation. Locate the
                           staging area away from sensitive receptors (such as
                           the park, homes across Railroad Avenue, and school).
      AIR QUALITY 2        Cover any trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose
                           materials or require any trucks to maintain at least 2
                           feet of freeboard.
      AIR QUALITY 3        If construction operations carry visible soil materials
                           to paved areas or adjacent streets, sweep the affected
                           paved areas at least once per day.

7.2   Cultural Resources

      CULTURAL RESOURCES 1
                    If cultural resources are exposed during construction
                    of the proposed project, the AOC's contractor will
                    halt construction in that area of the site until a
                    qualified archaeologist performs an evaluation of the
                    find. If the archaeologist determines the find to be
                    significant, the area of discovery shall be protected
                    from disturbance to allow qualified archaeologists
                    and appropriate officials, in consultation with the
                    SHPO, to determine appropriate measures for
                    conserving the resource.

      CULTURAL RESOURCES 2
                    If human remains are exposed during construction,
                    all construction activities shall halt in the area of the
                    discovery in accordance with California Health and
                    Safety Code section 7505.5. No further disturbance
                    shall occur to the area until the County Coroner
                    determines the origin and disposition of the remains,
                    pursuant to Public Resources Code 5097.98, and


      ERM                              83         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
                appropriate consultation and treatment are
                conducted.

7.3   Noise

      NOISE 1   Limit generation of loud noises to normal business
                hours between 8AM and 5 PM.

      NOISE 2   Locate staging area and stationary equipment as far
                as possible from sensitive receptors (such as the park,
                the homes across Railroad Avenue, and school).

      NOISE 3   Ensure all construction equipment is properly
                maintained and operated and are equipped with
                mufflers.




      ERM                   84         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
8.0   CONSULTANT RECOMMENDATION



      Based on the information and environmental analysis contained in the
      Initial Study/Environmental Checklist, we recommend that the Judicial
      Council of California prepare a Mitigated Negative Declaration for the
      East Contra Costa County Courthouse Project. We find that the proposed
      project could have a significant effect on a number of environmental
      issues, but that mitigation measures have been identified that reduce such
      impacts to a less than significant level. We recommend that the second
      category be selected for determination (See Section 9.0, Lead Agency
      Determination).




      13 December 2006
      Date                       George Carlson
                                 Program Director
                                 Environmental Impact Analysis and Planning
                                 ERM-West, Inc. (ERM)




      ERM                             85         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
9.0            LEAD AGENCY DETERMINATION




 I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the
 environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
 I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
 environment, there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions                X
 in the project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A
 MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
 I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the
 environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.
 I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or
 "potentially significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at
 least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document
 pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been addressed by
 mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis as described on attached
 sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must
 analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.
 I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
 environment, because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed
 adequately in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to
 applicable standards, and (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that
 earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation
 measures that are imposed upon the proposed project, nothing further is
 required.




                                      Judicial Council of California, Admin. Office of the Courts
Signature                             Agency




Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Scientist                      13 December 2006
Printed Name/Title                                           Date




               ERM                                  86          JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
10.0   COMMENTS RECEIVED



       The Draft Initial Study was made available to the public during a 30-day
       public review period from December 18, 2006 through January 17, 2007. A
       public notice, shown in Appendix F, was published in the Contra Costa
       Times on January 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, 2007, and notified the public that copies
       of the Draft Initial Study could be obtained at the Contra Costa Library
       branches in Pittsburg, Antioch, Brentwood, and Martinez or by
       downloading the document from a website. The notice was also sent by
       mail to individuals within a 300-foot radius of the project site. The
       mailing list, with addresses obtained from the Contra Costa County
       Assessor's Office, is provided in Appendix G.

       Bound copies of the Draft Initial Study were also sent by mail to local and
       state agencies within the vicinity of the project site. This mailing list is
       also shown in Appendix G.

       Following the public review period, comments were received from the
       City of Pittsburg Planning Department. No other comments were
       received. A copy of the City of Pittsburg comment letter is provided in
       Appendix H.




       ERM                              87         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
11.0   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS



       Following are the responses to the City of Pittsburg comment letter
       received on the Draft Initial Study. In each case, the individual comments
       in the letter are provided in their entirety prior to providing the response.
       Some responses include revisions or additions to the text in the Draft
       Initial Study. The text deleted from the Draft Initial Study is shown in
       strike-through below, and the new text is shown as underlined. The
       changes have been incorporated within the Final Initial Study.

       1.     Comment:      Page 9 ­ Proposed Project ­ First Paragraph 1

       The project site is described as being four acres; however, on Page 34
       (paragraph 1), the site is described as a five-acre site. Please confirm and
       check consistency throughout the document.

       The project site is 4.16 acres. The subject sentence on Page 34 has been
       changed as follows:

              The proposed 5-acre site approximately 4-acre site is located in a
              developed area zoned as a GQ District.

       As shown on page 58 of the Final Initial study, the first sentence of
       Response 4.12(a) has been changed as follows:

              The project proposes to construct a new courthouse on a 5-acre
              an approximately 4-acre site.

       2.     Comment: Page 9 ­ Proposed Project ­ Bullet 1

       AOC expects to locate a certain number of parking spaces on parcel 086-
       010-018, which will be owned by the City of Pittsburg. Please clarify the
       total number of parking spaces that will be required to meet expected
       Courthouse parking demand on that parcel considering the total
       number of on-site and on-street parking spaces along Civic Avenue
       (mentioned in bullet point no. five on page 68).

       On Page 9, the following change has been made:

              After completion of the new courthouse, the State of California will
              demolish the existing courthouse and transfer ownership of
              approximately three acres of the parcel 86-010-018's four acres to

       ERM                               88         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
       the City of Pittsburg. Although the State will construct new
       parking areas adjacent to the new courthouse, the City of Pittsburg
       will allow court visitors and staff to continue some parking at the
       existing parking lot.

On Page 14, the following changes have been made:

       The new courthouse will have two stories with a partial basement,
       will face southwards toward Center Drive, and will be
       approximately 45 feet tall. The facility will provide approximately
       200 parking spaces, and the City of Pittsburg will provide
       additional parking off-site to ensure a total courthouse parking
       supply of 280 spaces. The southern and eastern portions of the
       courthouse grounds would be landscaped.

Therefore, the first bullet point on page 9 now states that the State will
transfer only a portion of parcel 86-010-018 to the City of Pittsburg. In
addition, text for the bullet points on page 70 of the Final Initial Study
states that the AOC intends to construct up to approximately 200 parking
spaces for the new courthouse and that the City of Pittsburg will provide
additional parking near the new courthouse on City of Pittsburg property
so that the sum of the new courthouse's parking spaces and City of
Pittsburg's courthouse-dedicated spaces equals 280 parking spaces.

3.     Comment: Page 30 & 31 ­ 4.3.a ­ Air Quality (Last Paragraph)

This section notes that the new building would total about 20,000
additional square feet above the current facility however, the current
facility is estimated at 23,900 square feet (page 5), and the new facility is
estimated at 73,500 square feet (page 9) for a total additional gross floor
area of 49,600 square feet. This section assumes that the courthouse
"overall increase is small" with an "associated small increase in vehicle
trips." The total increase in vehicle trips and associated impacts on air
quality should be disclosed in the Initial Study in order to make a
determination if the impact is potentially significant or not.

The text on Page 31 incorrectly identifies the increase in square footage.
However, the conclusion does not change. The BAAQMD CEQA
Guidelines specifies that the project is considered significant if emissions
are greater than 80 pounds per day for ROG, NOx, and PM (each). Using
the URBEMIS model, emissions from a Government Civic Center was
estimated based on the increase in square footage from 23,900 to 73,500
square feet. The increase in emissions of ROG, NOx, and PM would be


ERM                               89         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
less than 9 pounds per day for each pollutant. Therefore, the impact from
ROG, NOx, and PM emissions would be less than significant.

The subject sentence on Page 31 has been changed as follows:

       As part of the proposed project, the number of court rooms would
       increase from four to seven, and the new building would have
       about 20,000 50,000 additional square feet.

4.     Comment: Page 31 ­ 4.3b ­ Air Quality (Last Paragraph)

This section states that additional vehicles and potential congestion
could increase local CO concentrations at nearby intersections; however,
without citing an Air Quality study or additional findings, the
paragraph concludes that "Additional vehicles, however, would not
have a significant impact on congestion or delay on nearby roadways.
Therefore, any CO concentration increase is anticipated to be less than
significant." Please provide the evidence that led to this conclusion.

The state CO ambient air quality standard is 9.0 ppm for the 8-hour
standard and 20 ppm for the 1-hour standard. A nearby monitoring
station (583 W. 10th St, Pittsburg) has measured a maximum 8-hour
concentration of 2.5 ppm and a maximum 1-hour concentration of 6.2 ppm
over the past 3 years. If we treat these concentrations as the representative
background concentrations, the proposed project would have to increase
8-hour and 1-hour CO concentrations by 6.5 ppm and 13.8 ppm,
respectively, to exceed the state standards.

The BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines provide an example calculation of CO
concentration at a fictitious intersection. The intersection has an hour
traffic volume of 6,100 vehicles per hour. This results in an increase in 8-
hour concentration of 2.2 ppm and increase in 1-hour concentration of 3.1
ppm over background levels. The intersections studied for the proposed
project are expected to have peak AM traffic volumes below 5,000 vehicles
per hour (existing plus project). If we assume conservatively, however,
that the analyzed intersections would generate CO concentrations equal to
the example in the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, the total predicted CO
concentration (background plus project) would be 4.7 ppm for the 8-hour
average and 9.3 ppm for the 1-hour average. This is well under the 8-hour
and 1-hour state CO ambient air quality standard of 9.0 ppm and 20 ppm,
respectively.

5.     Comment: Page 44 ­ 4.7.c. ­ Hazards and Hazardous Materials
       (First Paragraph)

ERM                              90         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Pittsburg High School is located at 250 School Street, approximately
1,100 feet from the proposed site.

The subject sentence has been changed as follows, as shown on Page 46 of
the Final Initial Study:

      Railroad Junction School Pittsburg High School, located at 2224
      Railroad Avenue 250 School Street, is within one-quarter mile of
      the project site.

6.     Comment: Page 47 ­ 4.8.a ­ Hydrology and Water Quality (First
       Paragraph)

As of August 15, 2006, all projects that result in the creation of over
10,000 square feet of impervious surface must show treatment source
control measures as set forth in the C.3 Guidebook.

The following changes have been made to the subject paragraph:

      Dischargers are required to incorporate facilities to treat runoff
      before it is discharged to storm drains or creeks. All projects that
      result in the creation of over 10,000 square feet of impervious
      surface must show treatment source control measures as set forth
      in the Stormwater C.3 Guidebook, such as producing a Stormwater
      Control Plan. The plan must show how drainage from each
      impervious area is captured and directed to an on-site treatment
      device. The plan should also outline how the treatment device will
      be operated and maintained. To protect...

The following changes have been made to the second paragraph in the
subject section:

      ...measures to reduce pollution. In addition, as the proposed
      project creates more than 10,000 square feet of impervious surface,
      it will comply with the source control measures as set forth in the
      Stormwater C.3 Guidebook. Therefore, potential water quality
      and...

7.     Comment: Section 4.15 Transportation and Traffic ­ Page 59 ­
       First Paragraph

California Avenue should be added to the list of primary roadways
serving the courthouse, and bullets should be added for the
intersections of California Avenue/SR4 WB off-ramp and California

ERM                             91         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Avenue/Harbor Street. Motorists traveling WB on SR4 must travel
on/through these facilities to access the courthouse.

The subject sentence, as shown on Page 61 of the Final Initial Study, has
been changed as follows:

      Roadways and Intersections: S.R. 4, Railroad Avenue, Power
      Avenue, California Avenue, and Civic Avenue are the primary
      roadways serving the courthouse. The major intersections affected
      by traffic traveling to and from the courthouse are as follows:
      ·      Civic Avenue/Railroad Avenue
      ·      Power Avenue/Railroad Avenue
      ·      Railroad Avenue/ S.R. 4 Freeway Interchange Westbound
             Ramps
      ·      Railroad Avenue/S.R. 4 Freeway Interchange Eastbound
             Ramps
      ·      California Avenue/SR4 Westbound Off-Ramp
      ·      California Avenue/Harbor Street


      Motorists traveling WB on SR4 must travel on/through these
      facilities to access the courthouse.

8.     Comment: Section 4.15 Transportation and Traffic ­ Page 63 ­
       Second Paragraph

Incorrectly states that the City's standard (i.e. threshold) for traffic
impact analysis is the same as CCTA's (100-pk.hr.trips). In fact the
City's General Plan (GP) Policy 3-P-9 requires a "City-lead traffic impact
study for all development projects expected to generate more than 50
peak-hour vehicle trips." However, a General Plan amendment
increasing the standard to more than 100 peak-hour trips, which is
consistent with CCTA standards, will be considered by the end of
January 2007.

The Draft Initial Study (page 63, third paragraph) states that the City's
threshold is currently "50 project trips." However, according to the City's
response to this Draft Initial Study, the City is currently considering
adopting the threshold of 100 peak hour trips consistent with the Measure
C (CCTA) threshold for traffic impact studies. See item # 10.



ERM                              92         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
9.     Comment: Section 4.15 Transportation and Traffic ­ Page 63 ­
       Third Paragraph

Incorrectly states that Railroad Ave./ SR 4 ramp intersections have LOS
E as the poorest acceptable peak hour operation allowed by Pittsburg
General Plan policy (page 7-7) and Measure C. The poorest LOS allowed
at these intersections is D or better (< 85% capacity) per Measure C
requirements.

The subject sentence has been changed as follows, as shown on Page 66 of
the Final Initial Study:

      The City of Pittsburg General Plan includes a policy that requires
      that signalized intersection LOS standards comply with
      requirements of Countywide Transportation Measure C, which
      indicates that LOS E D is the poorest acceptable peak hour
      operation at the Railroad Avenue intersections with S.R. 4 ramps
      and that midrange LOS D (Traffic Volume/Roadway Capacity
      equals is greater than 0.85) is the poorest acceptable operation at
      signalized intersections along Railroad Avenue.

10.    Comment: Section 4.15 Transportation and Traffic ­ Page 64 ­
       Last Paragraph

The document states that the project would generate, at most, a 30%
increase in courthouse traffic, yet the new courthouse's GFA is
proposed to be more than triple the existing courthouse.

The courthouse expansion development project is expected to increase
the existing courthouse gross floor area by 49,600 sf (73,500 sf ­ 23,900
sf). ITE's published trip generation rate for Land Use Code 730, Govt.
Office Bldg., is 5.88 peak hour trips per 1000 square feet GFA (weekday
a.m. peak hour of adjacent street traffic). Using this rate, the courthouse
expansion is projected to generate 292 net new peak hour trips (5.88 x
49.6), and a traffic impact study is necessary to meet City and Measure C
requirements.

Assuming a 30% increase in trips due to the courthouse expansion is
appropriate for analyzing traffic impacts; then, using Table 4.15-2,
Traffic Counts of Courthouse Traffic, there would be 211 + 83 = 294 trips
generated in the peak hour of the project, from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m.

Please note that any Traffic Study prepared for the project must follow
CCTA protocol and format.

ERM                              93        JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
The City's suggested square-foot- based approach to determining trip
generation is found incorrect because:

(a) The current building is over-crowded and much of the new building's
square-footage alleviates the current over-crowding without increasing
traffic; and

(b) Equating a courthouse to a "Government Office Building" is not valid
because courthouses contain substantial areas (such as holding cells and
separate public/judicial staff/in-custody detainee circulation areas) that
do not generate automobile traffic.

The City does not reject the Initial Study's 30% projection; however, it
presumes that 30% x 211 trips equals 83 new trips. The 83 new trip result
is incorrect; 30% x 211 is only 63 new trips. Both 83 (an incorrect
calculation) or 63 (correct calculation) new trips fall below the CCTA's 100
vehicle trip threshold for traffic studies.

The suggested contact with the CCTA has been made, and the most
current CCTA Traffic Impact Guidelines (July 19, 2006) have been
reviewed. According to these Guidelines, the project would result in
generating fewer than 100 peak hour trips, thus, would not be required to
prepare a Traffic Impact Study.




ERM                              94         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
12.0   OTHER REVISIONS TO THE DRAFT INITIAL STUDY



       The Lead Agency has made the following revisions to the Draft Initial
       study. The deleted text from the Draft Initial Study is shown in strike-
       through below, and the new text is shown as underlined. The changes
       have been incorporated within the Final Initial Study.

       1.    Revision: On the Title Page, the following change has been made:

       East Contra Costa County Courthouse

       2.    Revision: On Page 3, the following changes have been made:

       The General Plan elements reviewed in the preparation of this document
       include Air Quality; Drainage, Flooding, and Water Quality; Land Use;
       Transportation; Noise; Health and Safety; and Open Space, Youth, and
       Recreation.

       3.    Revision: On Page 7, the following changes have been made:

       The Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse operates with five judicial position
       equivalents in four courtrooms; it also includes and a jury assembly room
       that functions as a fifth courtroom for the hearing of traffic and small
       claims cases; the Superior Court expects to add another judicial position in
       2007.

       4.    Revision: On Page 7, the following changes have been made:

       The Sheriff's bus stops along the driveway adjacent to the sallyport, and
       defendants in-custody detainees enter through a fenced security entrance.

       5.    Revision: On Page 10, the following change has been made:

       The lot will have approximately 40 spaces and will include an exit-only
       connection to Railroad Avenue.

       6.    Revision: On Page 10, the following text has been added as the
             second bullet point:

       An access lane will extend from the Civic Center's driveway along the
       northern side of the new courthouse to an exit-only driveway to Railroad
       Avenue. The access lane will be partially below ground-level to connect to

       ERM                              95         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
the courthouse's basement-level sallyport; gates will restrict access to the
sallyport. The access lane will provide access to public parking areas,
restricted access to the sallyport, and exit-only access to Railroad Avenue
from the secured parking area, sallyport, and the public parking areas.

7.     Revision: On Page 11, the following change has been made:

Noise control contract provisions to limit the hours of construction
activities from Limit construction activities that generate loud noises to
the hours from 8:00 AM...

8.     Revision: On Page 11, the following has been added as the third
       bullet point:

The project's design will include features to ensure compliance with San
Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Boards' NPDES permit
requirements, including Provision "C.3" for the governing discharges from
the municipal storm drain systems of Contra Costa County and cities and
towns within the County; and ...

9.     Revision: On Page 12, the following changes have been made::

The AOC expects to begin construction of the new courthouse in midlate-
2008 and complete construction of the new courthouse in late 2009 early
2010.

10.    Revision: As shown on Page 14 of the Final Initial Study, the
       following changes have been made:

The existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse would be demolished and
replaced by a 120-space parking lot assigned to the new facility. The new
East Contra Costa County Courthouse would be constructed just south of
the parking lot, requiring the demolition of two buildings ­ the PCC
building and the PFCU building. The project will demolish the existing
Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse after completion of the new facility. The new
East Contra Costa County Courthouse will be just south of the parking lot,
and its construction will require the demolition of two buildings ­ the
PCC building and the PFCU building.

11.    Revision: As shown on Page 14 of the Final Initial Study, the
       following changes have been made:

The new courthouse would be designed to maximize will improve the
security of courthouse employees, with a separate driveway for receiving

ERM                               96         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
in-custody detainees. In addition, the project proposes to expand on-site
parking by approximately 120 170 spaces.

12.   Revision: On Page 14, the following changes have been made:

The General Plan Land Use Map designates the site as Public/
Institutional, while zoning is GQ. Therefore, The Judicial Council of
California is responsible for approving the project. The courthouse use is
consistent with surrounding land uses and the land-use designation.

13.   Revision: On Page 15, the following changes have been made:

Judicial Council of California
Administrative Office of the Courts
2860 Gateway Oaks Drive 455 Golden Gate Avenue
Sacramento, CA 95833-3509 San Francisco, CA 94102-3660


14.   Revision: On Page 15, the following changes have been made:


Jerry Ripperda, Environmental Analyst
Administrative Office of the Courts
2860 Gateway Oaks Drive
Sacramento, CA 95833-3509
Phone: (916) 263-8865
Fax: (916) 263-8140
Email: Jerry.Ripperda@jud.ca.gov

15.   Revision: On Page 30, the following change has been made:

As part of the proposed project, the number of court rooms would
increase from four and a half to seven, and...

16.   Revision: On Page 32, the following changes have been made:

As noted in the discussion of Traffic resources, analysts expect the project
to cause a courthouse-related traffic increase of approximately 30%, which
will add approximately 83 traffic trips during the 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
period. As shown in Table 4.15-1, analysts' traffic counts for Railroad
Avenue during the AM peak hour exceeded 1,500 at the Civic
Avenue/Railroad Avenue intersection and 3,370 for the Power
Avenue/Railroad Avenue intersection. Since the project's projected traffic
increase is trivial compared to existing Railroad Avenue traffic, the

ERM                              97         JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
project's traffic-related air quality effects will be trivial in relation to
existing traffic-related air quality effects. After construction, the small
increase in vehicle emissions will not produce significant impacts to any
air quality...

17.      Revision: On Page 53, the following changes have been made:

According to the General Plan, loud noises from construction activities
that are adjacent to existing development are limited to the hours of 8 AM
to 5 PM. The General Plan noise mitigation measure 12-P-9 requires
projects to limit generation of loud noises on construction sites adjacent to
existing development to normal business hours between 8am and 5pm.

18.      Revision: On Pages 56, 84, and Appendix A, the following change
         has been made to Mitigation Measure Noise 1:
Restrict construction activities to 8 AM and 5 PM and no activities shall
occur on Sundays or holidays. Limit generation of loud noises to normal
business hours between 8AM and 5 PM.

19.      Revision: On Page 56, the following changes have been made:

...application of Mitigation Measure NOISE 1, which limits construction
hours generation of loud noises.

20.      Revision: The following changes have been made to the second
         to the last row of Table 4.15-2, as shown on Page 74 of the Final
         Initial Study:
Time                                    Inbound                             Outbound

8:45 ­ 9:00                               43                                     30

Total Vehicles 8:00-9:00 AM       Total Inbound: 211                   Total Outbound: 83

9:00 ­ 9:15                                5                                     18




ERM                                98             JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA/0048893 ­ 1/22/2007
Figures
Figure 2
Site Detail Map
East Contra Costa County Courthouse
Intersection of Railroad Avenue and Center Drive
Pittsburg, California
Appendix A
Mitigation Monitoring Plan
Introduction

Section 15097 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
requires all state and local agencies to establish monitoring or reporting
programs for projects approved by a public agency whenever approval
involves the adoption of either a Mitigated Negative Declaration or
specified environmental findings related to an Environmental Impact
Report.

This Mitigation Monitoring Plan has been prepared for the East Contra
Costa County Courthouse project. The intent of the Plan is to prescribe
and enforce a means for properly and successfully implementing the
required mitigation measures to reduce or avoid significant
environmental impacts. Mitigation measures identified in this Mitigation
Monitoring Plan were developed in the Initial Study prepared for the
proposed project. This Mitigation Monitoring Plan is intended to be used
by AOC Site Representatives and other responsible parties to ensure
compliance with mitigation measures during project implementation.

The following table provides a summary of all mitigation and monitoring
that will be conducted for the project. It also identifies the responsible
monitoring party and implementation phase.



     Impact           Mitigation Measure           Monitoring      Implementation
                                                    Agency             Phase
                                  AIR QUALITY
Mitigation         Air Quality 1-3:              AOC Site         Prior to issuance
measures related                                 Representative   of a building
                   Develop and implement
to Air Quality                                                    permit and
                   measures to ensure that all
                                                                  initiation of
                   of the following
                                                                  construction
                   requirements are complied
                                                                  activities.
                   with.
                   1. During conditions
                      when substantial dust
                      is present, water all
                      exposed soil or apply
                      soil stabilizers to
                      construction areas,
                      parking areas, and
                      staging areas to
                      eliminate substantial
                      dust generation. Locate
                      the staging area away
     Impact             Mitigation Measure            Monitoring      Implementation
                                                       Agency             Phase
                       from sensitive receptors
                       (such as the park,
                       homes across Railroad
                       Avenue, and school).
                     2. Cover any trucks
                        hauling soil, sand, and
                        other loose materials or
                        require any trucks to
                        maintain at least two
                        feet of freeboard.
                     3. If construction
                        operations carry visible
                        soil materials to paved
                        areas or adjacent
                        streets, sweep the
                        affected paved areas at
                        least once per day


                              CULTURAL RESOURCES
Impacts related to   Cultural Resources 1:          AOC Site         During
archaeological and                                  Representative   construction
                     If cultural resources are
paleontological
                     exposed during
resources.
                     construction of the
                     proposed project, the
                     AOC's contractor will halt
                     construction in that area of
                     the site until a qualified
                     archaeologist performs an
                     evaluation of the find. If
                     the archaeologist
                     determines the find to be
                     significant, the area of
                     discovery shall be
                     protected from
                     disturbance to allow
                     qualified archaeologists
                     and appropriate officials,
                     in consultation with the
                     SHPO, to determine
                     appropriate measures for
                     conserving the resources.
Impacts related to   Cultural Resources 2:          AOC Site         Prior to issuance
disturbance of                                      Representative   of a building
                     If human remains are
human remains                                                        permit and prior
                     exposed during
                                                                     to commencement
                     construction, all
                                                                     of any grading
                     construction activities
     Impact             Mitigation Measure             Monitoring     Implementation
                                                        Agency            Phase
                     shall halt in the area of the
                     discovery. No further
                     disturbance shall occur to
                     the area until the County
                     Coroner determines the
                     origin and disposition of
                     the remains and
                     appropriate consultation
                     and treatment are
                     conducted.
                                          NOISE
Impacts related to   Noise 1-3:                      AOC Site             Prior to
Noise                                                Representative       issuance of
                     Develop and implement
                                                                          building
                     measures to ensure that all
                                                                          permit and
                     of the following
                                                                          initiation of
                     requirements are complied
                                                                          construction
                     with.
                                                                          activities
                     1. Limit generation of
                        loud noises to normal
                        business hours between
                        8AM and 5 PM.
                     2. Locate staging area and
                        stationary equipment as
                        far as possible from
                        sensitive receptors
                        (such as the park, the
                        homes across Railroad
                        Avenue, and school).
                     3. Ensure all construction
                        equipment is properly
                        maintained and
                        operated and are
                        equipped with
                        mufflers.
Appendix B
California Natural Diversity
Database Search
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Ambystoma californiense
         California tiger salamander                                                         Element Code:   AAAAA01180
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                 Global: G2G3                            CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                        State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: SPECIES NOW LISTED AS THREATENED STATEWIDE. POPULATIONS IN SANTA BARBARA & SONOMA COUNTIES
                    FORMERLY LISTED AS ENDANGERED
             Micro: NEED UNDERGROUND REFUGES, ESPECIALLY GROUND SQUIRREL BURROWS & VERNAL POOLS OR OTHER
                    SEASONAL WATER SOURCES FOR BREEDING


          Occurrence No.      575                  Map Index: 46242            EO Index: 46242                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Fair                                                                              Element: 2000-03-08
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 2000-03-08
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2001-10-24
            Main Source:      LYNCH, S. 2000 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.00335º / -121.95626º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4206700 E591634                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                            Section:   22       Qtr: SE
                                  Symbol Type: POINT                                                    Meridian:   M
                                       Radius: 1/10 mile                                               Elevation:   600 ft

                 Location: 1.3 MILES SW OFTHE INTERSECTION OF BAILEY ROAD AND INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY, SW OF WEST
                           PITTSBURGH
           Location Detail:
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF HILLY, NON-NATIVE GRASSLAND, UPSLOPE OF AN OLD STOCK POND (BERM OF
                           STOCK POND WASHED OUT SOME TIME AGO); LIKELY HISTORIC BREEDING HABITAT.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
                 General: 2 ADULTS (14CM TL) FOUND UNDER A BOARD ON 8 MAR 2000.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 1
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Ambystoma californiense
         California tiger salamander                                                         Element Code:   AAAAA01180
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                Global: G2G3                             CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                       State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: SPECIES NOW LISTED AS THREATENED STATEWIDE. POPULATIONS IN SANTA BARBARA & SONOMA COUNTIES
                    FORMERLY LISTED AS ENDANGERED
             Micro: NEED UNDERGROUND REFUGES, ESPECIALLY GROUND SQUIRREL BURROWS & VERNAL POOLS OR OTHER
                    SEASONAL WATER SOURCES FOR BREEDING


          Occurrence No.    756                  Map Index: 53771              EO Index: 53776                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 2003-11-09
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2003-11-09
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2004-01-05
            Main Source:    KIRK, H. 2003 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.00380º / -121.97411º                                  Township:    02N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4206733 E590066                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   21       Qtr: SE
                                Symbol Type: POINT                                                      Meridian:   M
                                     Radius: 80 meters                                                 Elevation:   590 ft

                 Location: 2 MILES SW OF WEST PITTSBURG
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS GRAZED NON-NATIVE GRASSLAND AND 2 FORMER STOCKPONDS CONNECTED BY A
                            RIP-RAP SPILLWAY; LOWER POND IS BORDERED BY WILLOWS AND CATTAILS, AND THE UPPER POND IS
                            DENSELY VEGETATED BY CATTAILS. PONDS ARE FENCED TO EXCLUDE CATTLE.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
                 General: 1 ADULT FEMALE (SVL = 95MM, TL = 178MM) TRAPPED IN DRIFT FENCE/PIT FALL TRAP 15 METERS FROM
                          POTENTIAL BREEDING POND ON 9 NOV 2003.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 2
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Cordylanthus mollis ssp. mollis
         soft bird's-beak                                                                    Element Code:   PDSCR0J0D2
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G2T1                               CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S1.1                              R-E-D Code: 3-2-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: COASTAL SALT MARSH.
             Micro: IN COASTAL SALT MARSH WITH DISTICHLIS, SALICORNIA, FRANKENIA, ETC. 0-3M.


          Occurrence No.    7                    Map Index: 10053              EO Index: 20377                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Fair                                                                                Element: 1999-11-05
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1999-11-05
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Decreasing                                                              Record Last Updated: 2000-09-11
            Main Source:    PATTERSON, C. 1978 (PERS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.04364º / -121.95451º                                  Township:    02N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4211173 E591737                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   03      Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 6.5 ac                                                   Elevation:   3 ft

                 Location: NORTH OF MCAVOY BOAT HARBOR AND NORTHEAST OF SHORE ACRES, ABOUT 0.5 MILE NORTH OF RR
                           TRACKS, WEST OF PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail: COLONIES MAPPED ALONG EITHER SIDE OF LEVEE.
               Ecological: IN TIDAL BRACKISH MARSH WITH DISTICHLIS SPICATA, SALICORNIA VIRGINICA, ATRIPLEX PATULA
                           HASTATA, SCIRPUS OLNEYI, LOTUS CORNICULATUS, AND JAUMEA.
                   Threat: HEAVILY GRAZED, NEAR ERODING LEVEE, JUNK PILES NEARBY.
                 General: 100 INDIVIDUALS OBSERVED BY PATTERSON IN 1984, NONE SEEN IN 1986, FEWER THAN 20 IN 1989, 23 IN
                          1993, 72 IN 1999 (MOST IN NEW COLONY). SOME SUITABLE HABITAT STILL EXISTS BUT SURROUNDING AREA
                          GRAZED AND DISKED.
          Owner/Manager: PG&E




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 3
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Cordylanthus mollis ssp. mollis
         soft bird's-beak                                                                    Element Code:   PDSCR0J0D2
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G2T1                               CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S1.1                              R-E-D Code: 3-2-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: COASTAL SALT MARSH.
             Micro: IN COASTAL SALT MARSH WITH DISTICHLIS, SALICORNIA, FRANKENIA, ETC. 0-3M.


          Occurrence No.    17                   Map Index: 22181              EO Index: 7978                      Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 2002-10-08
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2002-10-08
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2003-02-12
            Main Source:    BOURSIER, P. 1992 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.05090º / -121.99427º                                  Township:    02N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4211940 E588240                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   05      Qtr: N
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 20.1 ac                                                  Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: SUISUN BAY, FROM 0.3 MI W OF MIDDLE POINT TO 0.3 MI E OF MIDDLE POINT. PLANTS AT EDGE OF MARSH
                           AND 0.3 MI INLAND.
           Location Detail: OCCURRENCE MODIFIED TO INCLUDE 1996 SURVEY INFO ON CONCORD NAVAL WEAPONS STATION LAND
                            (EASTERN AND WESTERNMOST POLYGONS). OCCURRENCE CONSISTS OF FIVE POLYGONS CURRENTLY.
               Ecological: TIDAL SALT MARSH DOMINATED BY SALICORNIA VIRGINICA, AND DISTICHLIS SPICATA STOLONIFERA,
                           JAUMEA CARNOSA, ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM. OTHER RARE PLANTS NEARBY: LILAEOPSIS MASONII AND
                           LATHYRUS JEPSONII VAR. JEPSONII.
                   Threat: MOSQUITO ABATEMENT CHANNELS DUG IN MARSH.
                 General: OVER 12,000 PLANTS SEEN IN 1992 IN 5 GROUPS, 61,925 IN 1994, 16 PLANTS IN 1996 ON CONCORD NWS
                          LAND. UNKNOWN NUMBER OF PLANTS AT WEST POLY DURING ASTER LENTUS SURVEY IN 2002.
          Owner/Manager: PVT, DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 4
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Cordylanthus mollis ssp. mollis
         soft bird's-beak                                                                    Element Code:   PDSCR0J0D2
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G2T1                               CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S1.1                              R-E-D Code: 3-2-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: COASTAL SALT MARSH.
             Micro: IN COASTAL SALT MARSH WITH DISTICHLIS, SALICORNIA, FRANKENIA, ETC. 0-3M.


          Occurrence No.    24                   Map Index: 37761              EO Index: 32768                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Unknown                                                                             Element: 1979-06-15
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1979-06-15
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 1997-12-24
            Main Source:    SAVAGE, W. #1267 SJSU #9368 (HERB)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.04484º / -121.96174º                                  Township:    02N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4211299 E591102                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                              Section:   03      Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POINT                                                      Meridian:   M
                                     Radius: 1/10 mile                                                 Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: ABOUT 0.25 MILE NORTH OF HARRIS YACHT HARBOR ON WEST SIDE OF CHANNEL, PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail: 100' WEST OF HARRIS HARBOR CHANNEL. NEAREST LANDMARK LABELED AS MCAVOY BOAT HARBOR ON
                            TOPO MAP.
               Ecological: DISTURBED SALT MARSH ASSOCIATED WITH SALICORNIA, COTULA, AND DISTICHLIS.
                  Threat:
                 General: ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS SITE IS 1979 COLLECTION BY SAVAGE.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 5
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus
         California black rail                                                               Element Code:   ABNME03041
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G4T1                             CDFG Status:
             State: Threatened                                 State: S1
                  Habitat Associations
           General: MAINLY INHABITS SALT-MARSHES BORDERING LARGER BAYS.
             Micro: OCCURS IN TIDAL SALT MARSH HEAVILY GROWN TO PICKLEWEED; ALSO IN FRESH-WATER AND BRACKISH
                    MARSHES, ALL AT LOW ELEVATION.


          Occurrence No.     34                   Map Index: 10179             EO Index: 25802                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1977-07-02
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1977-07-02
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1989-08-10
            Main Source:     MANOLIS, T. 1977 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.04213º / -121.91996º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4211040 E594771                                Range:    01W
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                     Symbol Type: POINT                                                 Meridian:   M
                                          Radius: 1/5 mile                                             Elevation:

                 Location: MALLARD ISLAND, HONKER BAY.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT IS MARSH CONSISTING OF SCIRPUS, JUNCUS, DISTICHLIS, AND TYPHA.
                  Threat:
                  General: 2-3 RAILS OBSERVED.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 6
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus
         California black rail                                                               Element Code:   ABNME03041
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G4T1                             CDFG Status:
             State: Threatened                                 State: S1
                  Habitat Associations
           General: MAINLY INHABITS SALT-MARSHES BORDERING LARGER BAYS.
             Micro: OCCURS IN TIDAL SALT MARSH HEAVILY GROWN TO PICKLEWEED; ALSO IN FRESH-WATER AND BRACKISH
                    MARSHES, ALL AT LOW ELEVATION.


          Occurrence No.     35                   Map Index: 09889             EO Index: 25800                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1994-04-XX
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1994-04-XX
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Decreasing                                                             Record Last Updated: 1999-01-14
            Main Source:     JONES & STOKES ASSOC. 1984 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.05223º / -122.00525º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4212077 E587275                                Range:    01W
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   05     Qtr: NW
                                     Symbol Type: POLYGON                                               Meridian:   M
                                             Area: 477.4 ac                                            Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: AVON-PORT CHICAGO MARSH BETWEEN PILES AT RR YARD AND MIDDLE POINT.
           Location Detail: 1994, 3 PAIRS DETECTED IN MARSH OFF WHITE ROAD NEAR PIER 3 AND 1 IN MARSH OFF FROID STREET.
                            RED FOX PREDATATION MAY BE PART OF THE REASON FOR THE POPULATION DECLINE.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                  General: RAILS OBSERVED BY DFG PERSONNEL IN 1976. 21 RAILS RESPONDED TO TAPED CALLS IN 1982. 5 PAIRS
                           IDENTIFIED BY CALLS IN 1994.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 7
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus
         California black rail                                                               Element Code:   ABNME03041
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G4T1                             CDFG Status:
             State: Threatened                                 State: S1
                  Habitat Associations
           General: MAINLY INHABITS SALT-MARSHES BORDERING LARGER BAYS.
             Micro: OCCURS IN TIDAL SALT MARSH HEAVILY GROWN TO PICKLEWEED; ALSO IN FRESH-WATER AND BRACKISH
                    MARSHES, ALL AT LOW ELEVATION.


          Occurrence No.     77                   Map Index: 10024             EO Index: 25789                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1982-06-27
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1982-06-27
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1996-01-05
            Main Source:     JONES & STOKES ASSOC. 1984 (LIT)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.04685º / -121.96774º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4211516 E590572                                Range:    99X
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                     Symbol Type: POINT                                                 Meridian:   M
                                          Radius: 1/5 mile                                             Elevation:

                Location: AVON-PORT CHICAGO MARSH; E OF FILTRATION PLANT, W OF MCAVOY BOAT HARBOR & N OF RR TRACKS.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological:
                  Threat:
                  General: 3 RAILS RESPONDED TO TAPED CALLS.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-NAVY




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 8
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus
         California black rail                                                               Element Code:   ABNME03041
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G4T1                             CDFG Status:
             State: Threatened                                 State: S1
                  Habitat Associations
           General: MAINLY INHABITS SALT-MARSHES BORDERING LARGER BAYS.
             Micro: OCCURS IN TIDAL SALT MARSH HEAVILY GROWN TO PICKLEWEED; ALSO IN FRESH-WATER AND BRACKISH
                    MARSHES, ALL AT LOW ELEVATION.


          Occurrence No.     112                  Map Index: 38622             EO Index: 33629                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Good                                                                               Element: 1998-04-02
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1998-04-02
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1998-04-20
            Main Source:     PARKER, C. 1998 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.04564º / -121.94496º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4211404 E592573                                Range:    01W
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   02     Qtr: XX
                                     Symbol Type: POINT                                                 Meridian:   M
                                          Radius: 1/10 mile                                            Elevation:   1 ft

                 Location: SOUTH SIDE OF SUISUN BAY, 0.5 MILE SSE OF STAKE POINT, 3 MILES WEST OF PITTSBURG
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF TIDAL SALT MARSH, DOMINATED BY TYPHA LATIFOLIA AND SCIRPUS ACUTUS,
                            INDICATING A STRONG FRESHWATER INFLUENCE. HIGH MARSH AREAS HAVE SCATTERED PICKLEWEED,
                            WITH A DOMINANT COVER OF JUNCUS MEXICANA.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY POLLUTION BY TRAIN TRACK AND PIPELINE MAINTENANCE PROJECTS.
                  General: 2 ADULTS HEARD VOCALIZING AT ABOUT MID-DAY ON 2 APRIL 1998.
          Owner/Manager: PG&E




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                            Page 9
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lepidurus packardi
         vernal pool tadpole shrimp                                                          Element Code:   ICBRA10010
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G3                               CDFG Status:
             State: None                                       State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: INHABITS VERNAL POOLS AND SWALES IN THE SACRAMENTO VALLEY CONTAINING CLEAR TO HIGHLY TURBID
                    WATER.
             Micro: POOLS COMMONLY FOUND IN GRASS BOTTOMED SWALES OF UNPLOWED GRASSLANDS. SOME POOLS ARE
                    MUD-BOTTOMED & HIGHLY TURBID.


          Occurrence No.    161                  Map Index: 43813              EO Index: 43813                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Excellent                                                                           Element: 2000-03-24
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2000-03-24
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2001-08-09
            Main Source:    FLOHR, G. 2000 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: ANTIOCH NORTH (3812117/481D), HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.09397º / -121.87538º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4216838 E598613                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   21     Qtr: NW
                                Symbol Type: POINT                                                      Meridian:   M
                                     Radius: 80 meters                                                 Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: MONTEZUMA, 1 MILE WEST OF THE INTERSECTION OF TALBERT LANE AND COLLINSVILLE ROAD.
           Location Detail: HUGE VERNAL POOL, 4+ ACRES WITHIN A 20+ VERNAL POOL COMPLEX.
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF A HUGE VERNAL POOL (~4 FEET DEEP); SURROUNDING AGRICULTURAL FIELD
                           PRIMARILY USED FOR GRAZING LIVESTOCK, RIMMED WITH ANNUAL EXOTIC GRASSES.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY A RESTORATION PROJECT WHICH COULD IMPACT THE POND AND ITS HYDROLOGY.
                 General: 100+ ADULTS OBSERVED ON 14 MAR 2000; 6 OBSERVED ON 23 MAR 2000; 15+ BREEDING ADULTS, TOTAL
                          OF 100'S OBSERVED, ON 24 MAR 2000. COLLECTIONS DEPOSITED IN CAS (GEF#326 AND GEF#327).
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 10
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: None                                       Global: G3                                CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                        State: S3.1                             R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      21                   Map Index: 10358            EO Index: 6425                      Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1996-07-24
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1996-07-24
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 1997-03-31
            Main Source:      KNIGHT, W. #3292 JEPS (HERB)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.03947º / -121.86579º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4210801 E599528                                   Range:    01E
                              Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                            Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 693.7 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: ALL ALONG SHORES OF BROWNS ISLAND, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail: AT LEAST ONE POPULATION NOTED FROM THE INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND (GREWELL, 1996).
               Ecological: AT THE WATERS EDGE IN MOIST AREAS WITH FIRM SUBSTRATUM INCLUDING PILINGS AND PEAT
                           HUMMOCKS. ASSOCIATED VEGETATION INCLUDES TULES AND RUSHES. ANOTHER RARE PLANT:
                           LATHYRUS JEPSONII JEPSONII ALSO OCCURS HERE; BUT IT EXISTS THROUGHOUT ISLAND.
                   Threat: NO IMMEDIATE DANGER.
                 General: COMMON; 1000'S OF PLANTS IN 1978. PLANTS ALSO SEEN IN THIS VICINITY IN 1992 (ERTTER ET AL), 1995
                          (ZEBELL AND FIEDLER, 1996), AND 1996 (GREWELL.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 11
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      65                   Map Index: 26651  EO Index: 13880                               Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Fair                                                                              Element: 1993-XX-XX
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1993-XX-XX
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-07
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1994 (LIT)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C), DENVERTON (3812128/481B)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.11986º / -121.88947º                                Township:    03N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4219696 E597343                                   Range:    01E
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   08      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 312.1 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: MONTEZUMA SLOUGH, FROM NORTH END VAN SICKLE ISLAND NORTH TO MEINS LANDING, SUISUN
           Location Detail: SCATTERED COLONIES MAPPED ALONG BOTH SIDES OF SLOUGH. NEED GIS LAYER OR OVERLAY TO
                            APPRECIATE.
               Ecological: INTERTIDAL PORTION OF ESTUARINE/MARSH HABITAT. ASSOCIATES INCLUDE SCIRPUS ACUTUS,
                           PHRAGMITES COMMUNIS, JUNCUS LEASURII, SOLIDAGO OCCIDENTALIS, LATHRYUS JEPSONII JEPSONII,
                           AND DESCHAMPSIA CAESPITOSA.
                   Threat: PARTIALLY RIP-RAPPED. PHRAGMITES IS INVADING PORTIONS.
                 General: MAIN SOURCES OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE ARE REPORT BY ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
                          OFFICE-DWR IN 1994, AND MAP BY DWR (1992). INCLUDES FORMER OCCURRENCE 66.
          Owner/Manager: PVT-CATELLUS CORP, OTHERS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 12
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: None                                       Global: G3                                CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                        State: S3.1                             R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      67                   Map Index: 21626            EO Index: 6409                      Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Fair                                                                              Element: 1990-08-20
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1990-08-20
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 1993-12-29
            Main Source:      KELCH, D. 1990 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.04048º / -121.88563º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4210892 E597786                                   Range:    01E
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 3.9 ac                                                 Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: PITTSBURG MARINA BREAKWATER, NEAR NEW YORK POINT.
           Location Detail: ALONG BREAKWATER ON SIDE SUBJECT TO WAVE ACTION.
               Ecological: POPULATION IS GROWING IN BARE SPOT ALONG ROTTING LOG. LATHYRUS JEPSONII VAR. JEPSONII AND
                           ASTER LENTUS ARE ALSO FOUND GROWING ALONG THIS BREAKWATER.
                   Threat: BREAKWATER MAINTENANCE IS THREAT TO POPULATION.
                 General: COLONY SIZE ESTIMATED AT 1000 INDIVIDUALS WITHIN AN AREA OF 4-5' LONG BY 8-12" WIDE.
          Owner/Manager: CITY OF PITTSBURG




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 13
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: None                                       Global: G3                                CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                        State: S3.1                             R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      81                   Map Index: 21928            EO Index: 4579                      Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Good                                                                              Element: 1992-08-19
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-08-19
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-11
            Main Source:      GOLDEN, M. & P. FIEDLER 1991 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.04581º / -121.94116º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4211427 E592906                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   02      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 155.1 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: SOUTH SHORE OF SUISUN BAY, FROM JUST EAST OF MIDDLE POINT TO JUST EAST OF MALLARD ISLAND.
           Location Detail: SCATTERED COLONIES LOCATED EVERY 20-200 FEET. NEED OVERLAY TO APPRECIATE COMPLEXITY.
               Ecological: GROWING ON CLAY SUBSTRATE WITH DISTICHLIS SPICATA, JUNCUS BUFONIUS, SCIRPUS SP., JUNCUS
                           BALTICUS C.F., ATRIPLEX PATULA VAR HASTATA, POTENTILLA SP., AND MOSS.
                   Threat: CATTLE GRAZING/TRAMPLING AND BANK EROSION APPEAR TO THREATEN THIS POPULATION.
                 General: 50+ COLONIES OF SIZE GREATER THAN 5 SQUARE METERS (MCCARTEN AND FRASER, 1992).
          Owner/Manager: PG&E




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 14
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: None                                       Global: G3                                CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                        State: S3.1                             R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      113                  Map Index: 24969            EO Index: 25461                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Good                                                                              Element: 1991-06-XX
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1991-06-XX
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 1996-01-05
            Main Source:      BOURSIER, P. 1991 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.05471º / -121.99284º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4212364 E588361                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POINT                                                    Meridian:   M
                                       Radius: 80 meters                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: TIP OF MIDDLE POINT ON SUISUN BAY, CONCORD NAVAL WEAPONS STATION.
           Location Detail: THREE COLONIES ALONG THE NORTHWEST FACE OF THE POINT.
               Ecological: ON WATERS EDGE WHERE FREQUENT WAVE ACTION SATURATES THE SUBSTRATE. GROWING NEAR
                           LEPIDIUM LATIFOLIUM, JUNCUS BALTICUS, AND TYPHA ANGUSTIFOLIA. CORDYLANTHUS MOLLIS SSP.
                           MOLLIS OCCURS ABOUT 600' TO THE SOUTH.
                   Threat: DRAINAGE DITCHES FOR MOSQUITO ABATEMENT PURPOSES ARE PRESENT, IMPACT TO RARE PLANTS IS
                           UNKNOWN.
                 General: THREE COLONIES, EACH ABOUT 1/2 SQUARE METER IN SIZE.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 15
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      135                  Map Index: 03573 EO Index: 13573                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-09-29
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-09-29
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-01
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.08193º / -122.02373º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4215355 E585619                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 113.4 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: RYER ISLAND, NAVAL WEAPONS CENTER-CONCORD, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail: MAPPED AT SCATTERED LOCATIONS ALONG PERIMETER OF ISLAND.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 16
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      136                  Map Index: 26539 EO Index: 5216                                 Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-17
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-17
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-01
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.10194º / -122.00241º                                Township:    03N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4217595 E587465                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   17      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 72.5 ac                                                Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: WEST END OF SIMMONS ISLAND, GRIZZLY BAY.
           Location Detail: SEVERAL COLONIES MAPPED ALONG LENGTH OF SUISUN CUTOFF AND ALONG GRIZZLY BAY SHORELINE
                            FROM PT. BUCKLER EAST TO ROARING RIVER.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 17
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      137                  Map Index: 16362 EO Index: 6362                                 Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-15
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-15
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-08-31
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.07188º / -121.97798º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4214283 E589644                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 14.1 ac                                                Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: SNAG ISLAND, NAVAL WEAPONS CENTER-CONCORD, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail: MAPPED ALONG MARGINS OF ISLAND.
               Ecological: LATHYRUS JEPSONII JEPSONII IS ALSO MAPPED ON THIS ISLAND.
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 18
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      138                  Map Index: 27063 EO Index: 17063                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-15
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-15
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-11
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.07964º / -121.99150º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4215131 E588448                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 15.3 ac                                                Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: FREEMAN ISLAND, NAVAL WEAPONS CENTER-CONCORD, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail: COMMON ALONG MARGINS OF ISLAND.
               Ecological: MAPPED WITH LATHYRUS JEPSONII JEPSONII.
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 19
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      139                  Map Index: 26542 EO Index: 6363                                 Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-15
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-15
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-08-31
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.08197º / -121.98232º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4215399 E589250                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 17.5 ac                                                Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: SOUTHERN SIMMONS ISLAND, BETWEEN NOYCE SLOUGH AND NORTHER SLOUGH, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 20
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      140                  Map Index: 13577 EO Index: 4577                                 Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-15
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-15
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-08-31
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.07134º / -121.91557º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4214285 E595118                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 123.7 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: CHIPPS ISLAND AND WHEELER ISLAND MARSH, HONKER BAY.
           Location Detail: NUMEROUS COLONIES MAPPED ALONG SOUTHERN SHORE OF WHEELER AND AROUND PERIMETER OF
                            CHIPPS ISLAND.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: MAP DETAIL IS ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS OCCURRENCE.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 21
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      149                  Map Index: 43706 EO Index: 43706                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-16
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-16
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-08-31
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.05126º / -121.98567º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4211988 E588994                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   04      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 1.4 ac                                                 Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: SOUTH SIDE OF SUISUN BAY ABOUT 0.4 MILE EAST OF MIDDLE POINT, SUISUN MARSH.
           Location Detail: SINGLE COLONY MAPPED NORTH OF CHEMICAL PLANT.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS SITE IS MAP DETAIL.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 22
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      150                  Map Index: 43707 EO Index: 43707                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-16
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-16
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-08-31
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.04031º / -121.94613º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4210811 E592477                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   11      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 1.7 ac                                                 Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: CHANNEL ABOUT 0.5 MILE EAST OF MCAVOY BOAT HARBOR, NORTH OF WEST PITTSBURG, SUISUN
           Location Detail: SINGLE COLONY MAPPED ALONG EAST SIDE OF CHANNEL, ABOUT 0.75 MILE SSE OF STAKE POINT.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS SITE IS MAP DETAIL.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 23
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      151                  Map Index: 43708 EO Index: 43708                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-17
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-17
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-01
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.08611º / -121.99545º                                Township:    99X
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4215845 E588094                                   Range:    99X
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   X
                                          Area: 3.3 ac                                                 Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: SOUTH SIDE OF SIMMONS ISLAND NEAR EAST END OF SUISUN CUTOFF, NORTHWEST OF FREEMAN
                           ISLAND, SUISUN MARSH.
           Location Detail: TWO COLONIES MAPPED ALONG ISLANDS ADJACENT TO SOUTH SIDE OF SIMMONS ISLAND AT MOUTH OF
                            SUISUN CUTTOFF.
               Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: ONLY SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS SITE IS MAP DETAIL.
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 24
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Lilaeopsis masonii
         Mason's lilaeopsis                                                                  Element Code:   PDAPI19030
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: None                                      Global: G3                                 CNPS List: 1B
             State: Rare                                       State: S3.1                              R-E-D Code: 2-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: FRESHWATER AND BRACKISH MARSHES, RIPARIAN SCRUB.
             Micro: TIDAL ZONES, IN MUDDY OR SILTY SOIL FORMED THROUGH RIVER DEPOSITION OR RIVER BANK EROSION.
                    0-10M.


          Occurrence No.      152                  Map Index: 43720 EO Index: 43720                                Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1992-06-16
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1992-06-16
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 2000-09-07
            Main Source:      DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES 1992 (MAP)

          Quad Summary: ANTIOCH NORTH (3812117/481D), HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.07190º / -121.87015º                                Township:    03N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4214395 E599102                                   Range:    01E
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   28      Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 59.5 ac                                                Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: EAST END OF MONTEZUMA SLOUGH AT SPINNER ISLAND, NORTH OF PITTSBURG, SUISUN MARSH.
           Location Detail: MAPPED AT SEVERAL LOCATIONS ALONG BOTH SIDES OF SLOUGH AT AND JUST UPSTREAM FROM
              Ecological:
                  Threat:
                 General: MAIN SOURCE OF INFORMATION FOR THIS SITE IS MAP DETAIL FROM DWR (1992, 1994).
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 25
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Oenothera deltoides ssp. howellii
         Antioch Dunes evening-primrose                                                      Element Code:   PDONA0C0B4
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G5T1                               CNPS List: 1B
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1.1                              R-E-D Code: 3-3-3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: INTERIOR DUNES.
             Micro: REMNANT RIVER BLUFFS AND SAND DUNES EAST OF ANTIOCH. 0-30M.


          Occurrence No.    8                   Map Index: 10328               EO Index: 18814                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Unknown                                                                             Element: 1984-XX-XX
                  Origin:   Transplant Outside of Native Hab./Range                                                 Site: 1984-XX-XX
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 1995-12-29
            Main Source:    KNIGHT, W. 1982 (PERS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.03964º / -121.87773º                                  Township:    99X
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4210807 E598480                                     Range:    99X
                            Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                              Section:   XX      Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POINT                                                      Meridian:   M
                                     Radius: 1/5 mile                                                  Elevation:

                 Location: ON THE WEST END OF BROWN'S ISLAND.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: IN SAND DUNES. ASSOCIATED WITH PHYLLA, RUBUS, CYNODON DACTYLON, AND ENCROACHING
                            WETLAND PERENNIALS (I.E. JUNCUS).
                   Threat: ONLY APPARENT THREAT IS FROM ENCROACHING VEGETATION (WEEDS IN ADDITION TO WETLAND SP.).
                 General: 10 PLANTS SUCCESSFULLY TRANSPLANTED IN 1978, 10 PLANTS OBSERVED THRIVING IN 1979. 6 PLANTS
                          SEEN IN 1984, 1985, OR 1986 BY HAVLIK. IN 1978.
          Owner/Manager: PVT, REG PARKS, STATE?




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 26
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Rallus longirostris obsoletus
         California clapper rail                                                             Element Code:   ABNME05016
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G5T1                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1
                  Habitat Associations
           General: SALT-WATER & BRACKISH MARSHES TRAVERSED BY TIDAL SLOUGHS IN THE VICINITY OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY.
             Micro: ASSOCIATED WITH ABUNDANT GROWTHS OF PICKLEWEED, BUT FEEDS AWAY FROM COVER ON
                    INVERTEBRATES FROM MUD-BOTTOMED SLOUGHS.


          Occurrence No.     73                   Map Index: 09777             EO Index: 30356                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1985-09-09
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1985-09-09
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1997-02-11
            Main Source:     KOVACH, S. 1985 (LIT)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C), VINE HILL (3812211/482D)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                      Lat/Long: 38.08437º / -122.02287º                                Township:    03N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4215627 E585691                                   Range:    02W
                              Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                            Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                  Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                  Meridian:   M
                                          Area: 322.0 ac                                               Elevation:   5 ft

                Location: RYER ISLAND, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological:
                  Threat:
                  General: 1-2 CLAPPER RAILS HEARD CALLING IN THE VICINITY OF THE OLD DUCK CLUB HOUSING AREA.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-NAVY




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 27
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Rana aurora draytonii
         California red-legged frog                                                          Element Code:   AAABH01022
                       Status                                NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                 Global: G4T2T3                          CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                        State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: LOWLANDS & FOOTHILLS IN OR NEAR PERMANENT SOURCES OF DEEP WATER WITH DENSE, SHRUBBY OR
                    EMERGENT RIPARIAN VEGETATION.
             Micro: REQUIRES 11-20 WEEKS OF PERMANENT WATER FOR LARVAL DEVELOPMENT. MUST HAVE ACCESS TO
                    ESTIVATION HABITAT.


          Occurrence No.      42                   Map Index: 21559            EO Index: 15141                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Fair                                                                              Element: 1991-09-13
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1991-09-13
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 1992-06-23
            Main Source:      PRESTON, R. 1991 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                      Lat/Long: 38.00963º / -121.96401º                                Township:    02N
                                          UTM: Zone-10 N4207389 E590946                                   Range:    01W
                              Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                Section:   22       Qtr: NW
                                  Symbol Type: POINT                                                    Meridian:   M
                                       Radius: 80 meters                                               Elevation:   350 ft

                 Location: APPROXIMATELY ONE MI SOUTH OF THE INTERSECTION OF WILLOW PASS ROAD AND HWY 4, SW OF WEST
                           PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail:
               Ecological: HABITAT IS A SMALL, INTERMITTENT STREAM (PORTIONS APPEAR PERMANENTLY WET), SURROUNDED BY
                           GRASSLAND.
                   Threat: SITE IS PROPOSED FOR DEVELOPMENT.
                 General: CURRENTLY USED FOR CATTLE GRAZING. RIPARIAN TREES AND SHRUBS HAVE RECENTLY BEEN RIPPED
                          OUT BY LANDOWNER. ONE ADULT FROG OBSERVED.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 28
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Rana aurora draytonii
         California red-legged frog                                                          Element Code:   AAABH01022
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                Global: G4T2T3                           CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                       State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: LOWLANDS & FOOTHILLS IN OR NEAR PERMANENT SOURCES OF DEEP WATER WITH DENSE, SHRUBBY OR
                    EMERGENT RIPARIAN VEGETATION.
             Micro: REQUIRES 11-20 WEEKS OF PERMANENT WATER FOR LARVAL DEVELOPMENT. MUST HAVE ACCESS TO
                    ESTIVATION HABITAT.


          Occurrence No.    255                  Map Index: 38862              EO Index: 33869                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Excellent                                                                           Element: 2000-04-18
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2000-04-18
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2000-05-22
            Main Source:    LYNCH, S. 1998 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                     Lat/Long: 38.00181º / -121.92492º                                 Township:    02N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4206561 E594388                                    Range:    01W
                             Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                 Section:   24       Qtr: SW
                                 Symbol Type: POINT                                                     Meridian:   M
                                      Radius: 80 meters                                                Elevation:   350 ft

                 Location: KELLER CANYON, 1.25 MILES SOUTH OF HWY 4 AND 1 MILE ESE OF BAILEY ROAD, WSW OF PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail: 2000 OBSERVATION IS THE FIRST JUVENILE FOUND IN THESE CREATED PERENNIAL WETLANDS;
                            UNKNOWN IF THIS IS THE RESULT OF BREEDING OR MIGRATION FROM AN UPSTREAM POND.
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF 6 LARGE, BASIN-LIKE, CREATED PERENNIAL WETALNDS; CREATED IN 1992 AS
                           MITIGATION FOR IMPACTS TO SEEPS/SPRINGS UPSTREAM.
                   Threat: THREATS INCLUDE SILTATION AND LAND SLUMPING, EVENTUALLY FILLING IN THESE WETALNDS OVER
                           TIME.
                 General: 2 ADULT FROGS OBSERVED ON 21 APRIL 1998. 1 JUVENILE FROG (2.25" SNU) OBSERVED ON 18 APR 2000.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 29
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Rana aurora draytonii
         California red-legged frog                                                          Element Code:   AAABH01022
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                Global: G4T2T3                           CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                       State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: LOWLANDS & FOOTHILLS IN OR NEAR PERMANENT SOURCES OF DEEP WATER WITH DENSE, SHRUBBY OR
                    EMERGENT RIPARIAN VEGETATION.
             Micro: REQUIRES 11-20 WEEKS OF PERMANENT WATER FOR LARVAL DEVELOPMENT. MUST HAVE ACCESS TO
                    ESTIVATION HABITAT.


          Occurrence No.    434                  Map Index: 45406              EO Index: 45406                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Excellent                                                                           Element: 2001-03-27
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2001-03-27
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2001-08-07
            Main Source:    PADGETT-FLOHR, G. E. 2001 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                     Lat/Long: 38.01560º / -121.96569º                                 Township:    02N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4208050 E590791                                    Range:    01W
                             Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                             Section:   15       Qtr: SW
                                 Symbol Type: POINT                                                     Meridian:   M
                                      Radius: 1/10 mile                                                Elevation:   250 ft

                 Location: 0.5 MILE SOUTH OF THE WILLOW PASS ROAD/HIGHWAY 4 INTERCHANGE, NEAR WEST PITTSBURG
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF 2 LARGE (>ONE-ACRE), PERENNIAL PONDS; SURROUNDED BY COLONIZING
                            CATTAILS AND WILLOWS.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY DRAINING AND FILLING FOR A DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
                 General: 3 ADULTS, 1 JUVENILE AND 12 TADPOLES OBSERVED (MANY MORE PRESUMED) ON 27 MAR 2001.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 30
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Rana aurora draytonii
         California red-legged frog                                                          Element Code:   AAABH01022
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Threatened                                Global: G4T2T3                           CDFG Status: SC
             State: None                                       State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: LOWLANDS & FOOTHILLS IN OR NEAR PERMANENT SOURCES OF DEEP WATER WITH DENSE, SHRUBBY OR
                    EMERGENT RIPARIAN VEGETATION.
             Micro: REQUIRES 11-20 WEEKS OF PERMANENT WATER FOR LARVAL DEVELOPMENT. MUST HAVE ACCESS TO
                    ESTIVATION HABITAT.


          Occurrence No.    675                  Map Index: 53771              EO Index: 53771                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 2003-01-22
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2003-01-22
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2004-01-05
            Main Source:    SCHNIDER, T. AND H. KIRK 2003 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                     Lat/Long: 38.00380º / -121.97411º                                 Township:    02N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4206733 E590066                                    Range:    01W
                             Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                 Section:   21       Qtr: SE
                                 Symbol Type: POINT                                                     Meridian:   M
                                      Radius: 80 meters                                                Elevation:   590 ft

                 Location: 2 MILES SW OF WEST PITTSBURG
           Location Detail: 2 ADULTS OBSERVED IN SHALLOW WATER, ALONG THE EDGE OF THE LOWER POND; 1 ADULT HEARD
                            CALLING FURTHER OUT IN THE SAME POND, POSSIBLY FROM AN ISLAND IN THE POND.
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF 2 FORMER STOCKPONDS CONNECTED BY A RIP-RAP SPILLWAY; LOWER POND IS
                           BORDERED BY WILLOWS AND CATTAILS, AND THE UPPER POND IS DENSELY VEGETATED BY CATTAILS.
                           PONDS ARE FENCED TO EXCLUDE CATTLE. CTS TRAPPED AT THIS SITE.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY DEVELOPMENT AND INSUFFICIENT WATER LEVELS FOR BREEDING.
                 General: 3 ADULTS DETECTED (2 OBSERVED, 1 HEARD) ON 22 JAN 2003.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 31
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.     10                   Map Index: 09980             EO Index: 23879                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1971-XX-XX
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1971-XX-XX
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1989-08-10
            Main Source:     SCHAUB, D. 1971 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                     Lat/Long: 38.11074º / -121.98386º                                 Township:    03N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4218589 E589081                                    Range:    01W
                             Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                             Section:   15     Qtr: XX
                                 Symbol Type: POINT                                                     Meridian:   M
                                      Radius: 1/5 mile                                                 Elevation:

                 Location: SIMMONS ISLAND, SE OF GRIZZLY ISL ON E SHORE SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: ONE OF FEW REMAINING NATURAL (UNKIDED) SALT MARSHES. HABITAT CONSISTS OF SPARTINA W/SOME
                            SALICORNIA.
                   Threat:
                General:
          Owner/Manager: UNKNOWN




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 32
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.     11                   Map Index: 10035             EO Index: 14565                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Good                                                                               Element: 2002-09-27
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 2002-09-27
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Stable                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2004-05-12
            Main Source:     BOTTI, F. 1988 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                     Lat/Long: 38.11967º / -121.96797º                                 Township:    03N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4219596 E590463                                    Range:    01E
                             Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                 Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                 Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                   Meridian:   M
                                         Area: 708.4 ac                                                Elevation:   3 ft

                 Location: NW PART OF HAMMOND ISLAND, SW CORNER OF GRIZZLY ISLAND WILDLIFE AREA, 10 MILES SSW OF
                           FAIRFIELD
           Location Detail: AREA CONSISTS OF PARTS OF PONDS 14, 15, AND 16. SW PORTION OF AREA TRAPPED BY SCHAUB IN 1971.
                            12/21-24/87 TRAPPING BY BOTTI SAMPLED ALL VEG TYPES, FROM SALICORNIA TO ANNUAL GRASS/HERB
                            MIX.
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF A MANAGED MARSH, DOMINATED BY PICKLEWEED, WITH SOME WEEDY SPECIES
                           AT THE EASTERN END OF POND 15. POND 14 IS MANAGED WITH TALL WHEATGRASS/ANNUAL GRASSES.
                           SURROUNDING AREA MANAGED FOR WATERFOWL AND PHEASANT HUNTING.
                   Threat:
                 General: 15 CAPTURES/5 RECAPS IN 1971. 7 CAPTURES IN DEC 1987. CAPTURES MADE, 1985-1994. 2 CAPTURED
                          1996. 43 CAPTURED 13 JUN 2002. 1 ADULT CAPTURED ON 15 JUL 2002. 37 CAPTURED 27 SEP 2002 AT 6
                          SITES (2 EACH IN PICKLEWEED, HALOPHYTES & UPLAND).
          Owner/Manager: DFG-GRIZZLY ISLAND WA




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 33
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    65                   Map Index: 09889              EO Index: 14553                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 1991-06-XX
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1991-06-XX
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Increasing                                                              Record Last Updated: 1999-01-14
            Main Source:    JONES & STOKES ASSOC. 1984 (LIT)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C), VINE HILL (3812211/482D)
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                    Lat/Long: 38.05223º / -122.00525º                                  Township:    02N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4212077 E587275                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                              Section:   05     Qtr: NW
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 477.4 ac                                                 Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: AVON-PORT CHICAGO MARSH, BOUNDED BY BELLOMA SLOUGH ON WEST, ON SOUTH BY SPRR TRACKS, &
                           BY CHEMICAL PLANT ON EAST.
           Location Detail: BUFFER ZONE FOR THE CONCORD NAVAL WEAPONS STATION. CAPTURES FROM A 1994 REPORT
                            COVERING RANGE 1985 TO 1994.
               Ecological: HABITAT IS COASTAL BRACKISH MARSH GRADING INTO COASTAL SALTMARSH, VEGETATED BY
                           SALICORNIA WITH AN EQUAL AMOUNT OF DISTICHLIS; UPPER EDGES BEING INVADED BY PEPPERGRASS
                           (LEPIDIUM LATIFOLIUM).
                   Threat: BUFFER ZONE FOR CONORD NWS; EAST PORTION UNDERGOING REMEDIATION FOR EARLIER HEAVY
                           METAL CONTAMINATION.
                 General: POP DETERMINED BY SHELLHAMMER, 1977. 2 TRAPPED AT 2 PLOTS IN 1982-83; 22 CAPTURES WITH 2
                          RECAPTURES SEP-OCT 1985; MIDDLE POINT MARSH APRIL-JUNE 1991, 147 CAPTURES IN 1250
                          TRAPNIGHTS. 53 CAPTURED IN 390 TRAPNIGHTS MAY-JUNE, 1991.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-CONCORD NWS




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 34
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    120                  Map Index: 10240              EO Index: 13332                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     None                                                                                Element: 1995-09-11
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1995-09-11
              Presence:     Possibly Extirpated
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 1998-12-07
            Main Source:    ODENWELLER, D. 1987 (LIT)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.07631º / -121.90577º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4214847 E595972                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 20.5 ac                                                  Elevation:   2 ft

                 Location: W SIDE OF VAN SICKLE ISLAND, ADJACENT TO HONKER BAY, 3.3 MILES NNW OF PITTSBURG AND 1.2 MILES
                           W OF DUTTON, SUISUN MARSH.
           Location Detail: 46 SMHM AND ONE SOREX SP (POSSIBLY A SUISUN SHREW-SOREX ORNATUS SINUOSUS) CAPTURED
                            DURING 423.5 TRAPNIGHTS. SMHM WERE RELEASED IN NEARBY HILL SLOUGH WILDLIFE AREA (SEE OCC
                            121).
               Ecological: PICKLEWEED, SOME BARE GROUND. DISPOSAL SITE. AREA TRAPPED IS A REVEGETATED DREDGE SPOILS
                           SITE.
                   Threat: SMHM WERE RELOCATED BECAUSE THIS SITE WAS SCHEDULED AS A DREDGE SPOIL DISPOSAL SITE.
                 General: 4 CAPTURED 1995 AND 1994. CAPTURES REPORTED DURING THE 1985 TO 1994 PERIOD.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 35
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.     127                  Map Index: 24890             EO Index: 23828                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1985-09-09
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1985-09-09
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1998-01-07
            Main Source:     KOVACH, S. 1985 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                     Lat/Long: 38.08449º / -122.02019º                                 Township:    03N
                                         UTM: Zone-10 N4215643 E585927                                    Range:    02W
                             Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                             Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                 Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                   Meridian:   M
                                         Area: 941.6 ac                                                Elevation:   5 ft

                 Location: RYER ISLAND, SUISUN BAY.
           Location Detail: ONE CAPTURED DURING 1985 SURVEY.
               Ecological: CRITICAL HABITAT IS DENSE COVER OF MARSH VEGETATION AND PRESENCE OF PERIPHERAL HIGH
                           MARSH OR UPLAND REFUGIAL HABITAT DURING HIGH TIDE.
                   Threat:
                 General: 1994 REPORT, SAMPLING DONE FROM 1985 TO 1994, CAPTURES INDICATED ON WEST END OF ISLAND.
          Owner/Manager: DOD-NAVY




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 36
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    136                  Map Index: 37559              EO Index: 32561                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Poor                                                                                Element: 2000-05-XX
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2000-05-XX
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2003-06-09
            Main Source:    SHELLHAMMER, H. 1991 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: ANTIOCH NORTH (3812117/481D), HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.08151º / -121.86874º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4215463 E599213                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                              Section:   28     Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 950.3 ac                                                 Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: W OF COLLINSVILLE, BOUNDED ON SOUTH BY SUISUN BAY, S & W BY MONTEZUMA SLOUGH AND S
                           MONTEZUMA, 4 MILES N OF PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail: 2001: CAPTURES IN DIKED MARSH ADJACENT TO MONTEZUMA SLOUGH & HONKER BAY. 1991: SITE BEING
                            CONSIDERED AS SPOILS DISPOSAL SITE WITH A CHANGE IN FINAL SITE TO TIDAL MARSH (WOULD
                            INCREASE VALUE TO MOUSE). MAPPED TO DESCRIPTION & MAP.
               Ecological: DIKED, SPARSE, SALINE PICKLEWEED GRAZED BY CATTLE.
                   Threat: CATTLE GRAZING, EXTREMES IN MOISTURE, POOR PLANT COVER. 2000: SITE TO BE DESTROYED FOR
                           SMHM FOR A "RESTORATION" PROJECT.
                 General: APR-MAY 2001: 10 CAPTURED. 21 CAUGHT IN 800 TRAP NIGHTS AT 4 DIFFERENT SITES WITHIN THIS AREA
                          10-14 JUNE 1991. UNKNOWN NUMBER CAPTURED AT 3 DIFFERENT SITES BETWEEN 1985 & 1994.
          Owner/Manager: PVT-LEVINE FRICKE RESTORATION




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 37
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    137                  Map Index: 37563              EO Index: 32565                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 2001-09-XX
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2001-09-XX
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2004-02-11
            Main Source:    FINFROCK, P. 1996 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.10680º / -121.89449º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4218242 E596921                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   17     Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 90.0 ac                                                  Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: DFG POND 1, SE CORNER OF GRIZZLY ISLAND, 5.2 MILES NORTH OF PITTSBURG
           Location Detail: DFG POND (SMHM SET ASIDE), GRIZZLY ISLAND WILDLIFE AREA. IN 1999, SMHM WERE CAPTURED UP TO
                            100 METERS FROM THE PICKLEWEED IN UPLAND GRASSES.
               Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF A MANAGED WETLAND, DOMINATED BY PICKLEWEED, INTERSPERSED WITH
                           ANNUAL GRASSES AND BARE GROUND.
                   Threat: POSSIBLE THREAT FROM FERAL CATS AND DOMESTIC DOGS.
                 General: 3 SMHM CAPTURED 1996. 8 SMHM CAPTURES/4 RECAPTURES DURING 400 TRAPNIGHTS IN 1999. 5 TOTAL
                          CAPTURES (2 RECAPTURES) IN 400 TRAPNIGHTS IN 2000. 3 ADULTS CAPTURED DURING SEP 2001.
          Owner/Manager: DFG-GRIZZLY ISLAND WA




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 38
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    161                  Map Index: 41875              EO Index: 41875                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Good                                                                                Element: 1999-07-27
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1999-07-27
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 1999-11-10
            Main Source:    FINFROCK, P. 1999 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.11920º / -121.94678º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4219564 E592321                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   11     Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 33.9 ac                                                  Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: GIWA AREA 12, NW OF REDHOUSE ROAD, GRIZZLY ISLAND WILDLIFE AREA.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF A MANAGED WETLAND.
                  Threat:
                 General: 21 CAPTURES (PLUS 7 RECAPTURES) DURING 200 TRAPNIGHTS ON 26-27 JUL 1999.
          Owner/Manager: DFG-GRIZZLY ISLAND WA




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 39
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    162                  Map Index: 41876              EO Index: 41876                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Excellent                                                                           Element: 2002-11-11
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2002-11-11
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2002-12-04
            Main Source:    FINFROCK, P. 1999 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.11234º / -121.93653º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4218813 E593228                                     Range:    01W
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   11     Qtr: XX
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 198.5 ac                                                 Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: GIWA AREA 11, SE OF REDHOUSE ROAD ALONG GRIZZLY ISLAND ROAD, GRIZZLY ISLAND WILDLIFE AREA
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: HABITAT CONSISTS OF A NARROW (150 YARDS) STRIP OF ROBUST PICKLEWEED ALONG GRIZZLY ISLAND
                            ROAD.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY A PROPOSED NATURAL GAS WELL TO BE DRILLED NEAR PARKING LOT #4.
                 General: AREA ALONG REDHOUSE ROAD: 27 CAPTURES DURING 200 TRAPNIGHTS, ON 12-13 JUL 1999. AREA
                          ADJACENT TO PARKING LOT 3: 22 CAPTURES DURING 100 TRAPNIGHTS, ON 26 JUL 1999. 1 ADULT
                          OBSERVED AT PARKING LOT #4 ON 11 NOV 2002.
          Owner/Manager: DFG-GRIZZLY ISLAND WA




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 40
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    168                  Map Index: 42116              EO Index: 42116                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Fair                                                                                Element: 1999-07-25
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 1999-07-25
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2000-01-06
            Main Source:    LACY, T. 1999 (OBS)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.12673º / -121.90006º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4220447 E596406                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                              Section:   06     Qtr: SE
                                Symbol Type: POLYGON                                                    Meridian:   M
                                        Area: 58.5 ac                                                  Elevation:   0 ft

                 Location: NORTH OF MONTEZUMA SLOUGH AND GRIZZLY ISLAND, SOUTH OF BIRDS LANDING ROAD, 1.5 MILES WEST
                           OF BIRDS LANDING
           Location Detail: SITE TRAPPED IS WITHIN THE CHEVRON PIPELINE CORRIDOR.
               Ecological: A DIKED FIELD VEGETATED BY SALTMARSH VEGETATION. EXCLUSION ZONES DOMINATED BY SALICORNIA
                           VIRGINICA, SCIRPUS SP, JUNCUS SP, ATRIPLEX TRIANGULARIS, & DISTICHLIS SPICATA. LARGER, MORE
                           VIGOROUS STANDS OF PICKLEWEED OUTSIDE PIPLINE CORRIDOR.
                   Threat: THREATENED BY REPAIR/MAINTENANCE OF AN EXISTING CHEVRON PIPELINE.
                 General: 4 ADULTS AND 3 JUVENILES WERE TRAPPED BETWEEN 19-25 JUL 1999.
          Owner/Manager: PVT




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 41
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Reithrodontomys raviventris
         salt-marsh harvest mouse                                                            Element Code:   AMAFF02040
                       Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G1G2                             CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S1S2
                  Habitat Associations
           General: ONLY IN THE SALINE EMERGENT WETLANDS OF SAN FRANCISCO BAY AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
             Micro: PICKLEWEED IS PRIMARY HABITAT. DO NOT BURROW, BUILD LOOSELY ORGANIZED NESTS. REQUIRE HIGHER
                    AREAS FOR FLOOD ESCAPE.


          Occurrence No.    169                  Map Index: 51505              EO Index: 51505                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:     Unknown                                                                             Element: 2000-05-XX
                  Origin:   Natural/Native occurrence                                                               Site: 2000-05-XX
              Presence:     Presumed Extant
                  Trend:    Unknown                                                                 Record Last Updated: 2003-06-09
            Main Source:    FLOHR, G. 2000 (OBS)

          Quad Summary: HONKER BAY (3812118/481C)
        County Summary: SOLANO

                                    Lat/Long: 38.12313º / -121.88685º                                  Township:    03N
                                        UTM: Zone-10 N4220062 E597569                                     Range:    01E
                            Mapping Precision: SPECIFIC                                                  Section:   08     Qtr: NE
                                Symbol Type: POINT                                                      Meridian:   M
                                     Radius: 80 meters                                                 Elevation:   0 ft

                Location: EAST SIDE OF MONTEZUMA SLOUGH, 1.1 MILES SW OF BIRDS LANDING.
           Location Detail:
               Ecological: REMNANT PICKLEWEED PATCH IN A DIKED MARSH.
                  Threat:
                 General: 4 ADULTS CAPTURED APRIL-MAY 2000.
          Owner/Manager: PVT-LEVINE FRICKE RESTORATION




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 42
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Sterna antillarum browni
         California least tern                                                               Element Code:   ABNNM08103
                        Status                               NDDB Element Ranks                       Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                 Global: G4T2T3Q                         CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                  State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: (NESTING COLONY) NESTS ALONG THE COAST FROM SAN FRANCISCO BAY SOUTH TO NORTHERN BAJA
                    CALIFORNIA.
             Micro: COLONIAL BREEDER ON BARE OR SPARSELY VEGETATED, FLAT SUBSTRATES: SAND BEACHES, ALKALI FLATS,
                    LAND FILLS, OR PAVED AREAS.


          Occurrence No.      61                   Map Index: 09948            EO Index: 25659                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:       Unknown                                                                           Element: 1983-XX-XX
                  Origin:     Natural/Native occurrence                                                             Site: 1983-XX-XX
              Presence:       Presumed Extant
                  Trend:      Unknown                                                               Record Last Updated: 1989-08-10
            Main Source:      JONES & STOKES ASSOC. 1984 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.05130º / -121.98913º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4211989 E588691                                Range:    01W
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                     Symbol Type: POINT                                                 Meridian:   M
                                          Radius: 1/5 mile                                             Elevation:

                 Location: AVON-PORT CHICAGO MARSH, BTWN MIDDLE POINT AND CHEMICAL PLANT.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological:
                  Threat:
                  General: DISCOVERED ON 09 AUG 82; MINIMUM OF 2 ADULTS WITH 3 FLEDGED AND ONE UNFLEDGED YOUNG. 1983,
                           6 PAIRS NESTED; 1987, 2-3 PAIRS FLEDGED 1-2 YOUNG; 1988, 1 PAIR NESTED BUT LATER ABANDONED
                           NEST. AREA NEEDS SUBSTRATE IMPROVEMENT AND VEG CONTROL.
          Owner/Manager: PVT-ALLIED CHEMICAL




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 43
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
 California Department of Fish and Game
 Natural Diversity Database
 Full Report for Selected Elements


    Sterna antillarum browni
         California least tern                                                               Element Code:   ABNNM08103
                        Status                              NDDB Element Ranks                        Other Lists
           Federal: Endangered                                Global: G4T2T3Q                          CDFG Status:
             State: Endangered                                 State: S2S3
                  Habitat Associations
           General: (NESTING COLONY) NESTS ALONG THE COAST FROM SAN FRANCISCO BAY SOUTH TO NORTHERN BAJA
                    CALIFORNIA.
             Micro: COLONIAL BREEDER ON BARE OR SPARSELY VEGETATED, FLAT SUBSTRATES: SAND BEACHES, ALKALI FLATS,
                    LAND FILLS, OR PAVED AREAS.


          Occurrence No.     71                   Map Index: 10190             EO Index: 13019                     Dates Last Seen
              Occ Rank:      Unknown                                                                            Element: 1988-07-07
                  Origin:    Natural/Native occurrence                                                              Site: 1988-07-07
              Presence:      Presumed Extant
                  Trend:     Unknown                                                                Record Last Updated: 1996-02-15
            Main Source:     CAMPBELL, K. & R. LAVALLEY 1984 (LIT)
          Quad Summary:
        County Summary: CONTRA COSTA

                                         Lat/Long: 38.03880º / -121.91663º                             Township:    02N
                                             UTM: Zone-10 N4210674 E595067                                Range:    01W
                                 Mapping Precision: NON-SPECIFIC                                         Section:   XX     Qtr: XX
                                     Symbol Type: POINT                                                 Meridian:   M
                                          Radius: 1/5 mile                                             Elevation:

                 Location: PG&E PLANT, PITTSBURG.
           Location Detail:
              Ecological: FARTHEST INLAND NESTING SITE IN CALIFORNIA.
                  Threat:
                  General: SITE DISCOVERED IN 1982; 6-7 PAIRS NESTED IN 1982; 3-4 PAIRS FLEDGED 5 YOUNG IN 1987; 3 PAIRS
                           PRODUCED ONLY ONE FLEDGLING IN 1988 DUE TO PREDATION BY A GREAT BLUE HERON.
          Owner/Manager: PG&E




Commercial Version -- Dated December 05, 2004 -- Wildlife and Habitat Data Analysis Branch                                           Page 44
Report Printed on Monday, June 26, 2006                                                                  Information Expired 06/05/2005
Appendix C
Cultural Resources Search
Appendix D
Traffic
INTERSECTION OPERATION

Methodology

Signalized Intersections. Intersections, rather than roadway segments between
intersections, are almost always the capacity controlling locations for any circulation
system. Signalized intersection operation is graded upon two different scales. The first
scale employs a grading system called Level of Service (LOS), which ranges from
Level 1, indicating uncongested flow, down to Level F, indicating significant congestion
on most or all intersection approaches. The Level of Service scale is also associated with
an intersection volume-to-capacity tabulation based on Contra CCTA Level of Service
software. CCTA LOS provides Level of Service based on the Circulation 212 method for
capacity analysis, and provides a volume-to-capacity ratio for the entire intersection. The
LOS and v/c scale shown on the following page provides detail regarding the level of
service-volume to capacity ratio relationship.
Signalized Intersection Level
     of Service Criteria
         Level of Service                   Description               Volume-to-Capacity
                 A              Operations with very low delay               0.6
                                occurring with favorable
                                progression and/or short cycle
                                length.
                 B              Operations with low delay                0.61 to 0.70
                                occurring with good progression
                                and/or short cycle lengths.
                 C              Operations with average delays           0.71 to 0.80
                                resulting from fair progression
                                and/or longer cycle lengths.
                                Individual cycle failures begin to
                                appear.
                 D              Operations with longer delays due        0.81 to 0.90
                                to a combination of unfavorable
                                progression, long cycle lengths,
                                and high V/C ratios. Many
                                vehicles stop and individual cycle
                                failures are noticeable.
                 E              Operations with high delay values        0.91 to 1.00
                                indicating poor progression, long
                                cycle lengths, and high V/C ratios.
                                Individual cycle failures are
                                frequent occurrences.
                 F              Operations with delays                      > 1.00
                                unacceptable to most drivers
                                occurring due to over-saturation,
                                poor progression, or very long
                                cycle lengths.
Source: Contra Costa
Transportation Authority.
WILTEC                                                                                                 Phone: (925) 706-9911          Fax: (925) 706-9914
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES                                                                 INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

INTERSECTION:                N/S         RAILROAD AVENUE                               DATE:                   TUESDAY, MAY 9TH, 2006
                             E/W         CIVIC AVENUE                                  PERIOD:                 6:30AM TO 8:30AM

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2            3          4        5      6        7           8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT     WBTH   WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-645               6         235            0          0        1      2        0          75        9           12         0            8       348
645-700              15         198            1          0        0      0        0          83       16           15         0            3       331
700-715              23         212            0          1        0      2        0          98       30           23         0            4       393
715-730              29         182            0          3        1      1        0         110       43           30         0           11       410
730-745              27         197            1          3        1      4        5         147       51           36         0           16       488
745-800              20         169            1          0        0      2        2         101       40           24         0            5       364
800-815              13         150            0          0        0      0        0          94       47           22         1            5       332
815-830              10         131            1          0        0      0        1          87       43           18         0            3       294
HOUR TOTALS           1           2            3          4        5      6        7           8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT     WBTH   WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-730              73         827            1          4        2      5        0         366       98           80         0           26      1482
645-745              94         789            2          7        2      7        5         438      140          104         0           34      1622
700-800              99         760            2          7        2      9        7         456      164          113         0           36      1655
715-815              89         698            2          6        2      7        7         452      181          112         1           37      1594
730-830              70         647            3          3        1      6        8         429      181          100         1           29      1478

 AM PEAK HOUR:     700-800
                                                                                       7

                                           99         760        2                     2

                                                                                       9



                                                36

CIVIC AVENUE                                     0                     164      456         7

                                             113                              RAILROAD AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                             BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST     TOTAL           15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                      PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-645                  0           1         8      5       14              630-645                      0          1           0          1           2
645-700                  1           2         3      7       13              645-700                      0          0           1          0           1
700-715                  1           5        11      0       17              700-715                      0          0           0          0           0
715-730                  0           6        26      7       39              715-730                      0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          19       104      5     128               730-745                      0          1           1          0           2
745-800                  0           5         4      0        9              745-800                      0          0           0          1           1
800-815                  1           1        11      1       14              800-815                      0          0           0          0           0
815-830                  0           0         4      0        4              815-830                      0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH WEST     TOTAL                 HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG     LEG                          PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-730                  2          14        48     19       83              630-730                      0          1           1          1           3
645-745                  2          32       144     19     197               645-745                      0          1           2          0           3
700-800                  1          35       145     12     193               700-800                      0          1           1          1           3
715-815                  1          31       145     13     190               715-815                      0          1           1          1           3
730-830                  1          25       123      6     155               730-830                      0          1           1          1           3
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (925) 706-9911          Fax: (925) 706-9914
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES                                                                       INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

INTERSECTION:                N/S        RAILROAD AVENUE                                      DATE:                   TUESDAY, MAY 9TH, 2006
                             E/W        POWER AVENUE                                         PERIOD:                 6:30AM TO 8:30AM

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2          3           4           5          6        7           8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT        WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-645               2         209          0           0           0          0        0          74       20           77         0            0       382
645-700               3         219          0           0           0          0        0          95       31           82         0            4       434
700-715               0         230          0           0           0          0        0         121       44           75         0            1       471
715-730               0         214          0           0           0          0        0         144       50           90         0            6       504
730-745               2         224          0           0           0          0        0         173       45           97         0            5       546
745-800               3         197          0           0           0          0        0         192       60           92         0            7       551
800-815               5         187          0           0           0          0        0         151       65           73         0            4       485
815-830               2         145          0           0           0          0        0         122       59           85         0            3       416
HOUR TOTALS           1           2          3           4           5          6        7           8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT        WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-730               5         872          0           0           0          0        0         434      145          324         0           11      1791
645-745               5         887          0           0           0          0        0         533      170          344         0           16      1955
700-800               5         865          0           0           0          0        0         630      199          354         0           19      2072
715-815              10         822          0           0           0          0        0         660      220          352         0           22      2086
730-830              12         753          0           0           0          0        0         638      229          347         0           19      1998

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                             0

                                          10         822           0                         0

                                                                                             0



                                               22

POWER AVENUE                                    0                            220      660         0

                                            352                                     RAILROAD AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                             PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-645                6            0           0           1            7          630-645                      0          0           0          2           2
645-700                0            0           0           3            3          645-700                      0          0           0          0           0
700-715                0            0           0           6            6          700-715                      0          0           0          3           3
715-730                0            0           0           4            4          715-730                      0          0           0          0           0
730-745                5            0           0          13           18          730-745                      3          0           0          2           5
745-800               10            0           0          16           26          745-800                      1          0           0          2           3
800-815                3            0           0           5            8          800-815                      1          0           0          1           2
815-830                2            0           0           3            5          815-830                      0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH EAST             SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG     LEG            LEG         LEG                             PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-730                6            0           0          14           20          630-730                      0          0           0          5            5
645-745                5            0           0          26           31          645-745                      3          0           0          5            8
700-800               15            0           0          39           54          700-800                      4          0           0          7           11
715-815               18            0           0          38           56          715-815                      5          0           0          5           10
730-830               20            0           0          37           57          730-830                      5          0           0          5           10
WILTEC                                                                                                          Phone: (925) 706-9911          Fax: (925) 706-9914
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES                                                                         INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

INTERSECTION:                N/S         RAILROAD AVENUE                                       DATE:                    TUESDAY, MAY 9TH, 2006
                             E/W         SR-4 EB RAMPS                                         PERIOD:                  6:30AM TO 8:30AM

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2            3           4           5          6        7            8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT        WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH      NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-645               0          65           31           0           0          0       51          292        0           53         0           40       532
645-700               0          68           22           0           0          0       44          288        0           66         0           56       544
700-715               0          74           41           0           0          0       39          296        0           71         1           63       585
715-730               0          85           65           0           0          0       57          336        0           99         0           81       723
730-745               0          99           62           0           0          0       53          298        0          103         1           99       715
745-800               0          98           54           0           0          0       53          263        0           92         0          101       661
800-815               0         102           37           0           0          0       36          219        0           85         0           87       566
815-830               0          89           24           0           0          0       51          224        0           89         0           65       542
HOUR TOTALS           1           2            3           4           5          6        7            8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT        WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH      NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
630-730               0         292          159           0           0          0      191         1212        0          289         1          240      2384
645-745               0         326          190           0           0          0      193         1218        0          339         2          299      2567
700-800               0         356          222           0           0          0      202         1193        0          365         2          344      2684
715-815               0         384          218           0           0          0      199         1116        0          379         1          368      2665
730-830               0         388          177           0           0          0      193         1004        0          369         1          352      2484

 AM PEAK HOUR:     700-800
                                                                                               0

                                            0          356          222                        0

                                                                                               0



                                                344

SR-4 EB RAMPS                                    2                             0       1193        202

                                                365                                   RAILROAD AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                     BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH        WEST        TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG          LEG                             PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-645                  0          2            2            2            6          630-645                       0          1           2          2           5
645-700                  0          2            2            3            7          645-700                       0          0           1          0           1
700-715                  0          5            3           10           18          700-715                       0          0           0          0           0
715-730                  0          6            5            0           11          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          4            2           10           16          730-745                       0          1           1          2           4
745-800                  0          8            7            7           22          745-800                       0          1           0          0           1
800-815                  0          5            7           10           22          800-815                       0          0           0          0           0
815-830                  0          4            6            5           15          815-830                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH WEST     TOTAL                         HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG     LEG                                  PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-730                  0          15        12     15       42                      630-730                       0          1           3          2           6
645-745                  0          17        12     23       52                      645-745                       0          1           2          2           5
700-800                  0          23        17     27       67                      700-800                       0          2           1          2           5
715-815                  0          23        21     27       71                      715-815                       0          2           1          2           5
730-830                  0          21        22     32       75                      730-830                       0          2           1          2           5
WILTEC                                                                                                         Phone: (925) 706-9911          Fax: (925) 706-9914
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES                                                                     INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

INTERSECTION:                N/S         RAILROAD AVENUE                                      DATE:                    TUESDAY, MAY 9TH, 2006
                             E/W         SR-4 WB RAMPS/CALIFORNIA AVENUE                      PERIOD:                  6:30AM TO 8:30AM

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2            3           4           5         6        7            8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-645             176          85            8          23         185         2        4           60      271            0         0            0        814
645-700             172          88           15          21         140         2        9           91      285            0         0            0        823
700-715             196         105            3          41         156         2        3          128      273            0         0            0        907
715-730             167         141           15          60         164         3       10          144      239            0         0            0        943
730-745             147         153           13          48         108         6       17          159      206            0         0            0        857
745-800             124         172           19          66          91         5       16          169      181            0         0            0        843
800-815             116         141           18          79          78         8        9          128      156            0         0            0        733
815-830             110         121           18          63          57        10       15          122      147            0         0            0        663
HOUR TOTALS           1           2            3           4           5         6        7            8        9           10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT         EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-730             711         419           41         145         645         9       26          423     1068            0         0            0       3487
645-745             682         487           46         170         568        13       39          522     1003            0         0            0       3530
700-800             634         571           50         215         519        16       46          600      899            0         0            0       3550
715-815             554         607           65         253         441        22       52          600      782            0         0            0       3376
730-830             497         587           68         256         334        29       57          578      690            0         0            0       3096

 AM PEAK HOUR:     700-800
                                                                                              215

                                           634        571          50                         519

                                                                                              16



                                                 0

SR-4 WB RAMPS/CALIFORNIA AVENU                   0                            899      600          46

                                                 0                                   RAILROAD AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                    BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                             PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-645                  0           2           0           5            7          630-645                       0          1           0           3            4
645-700                  0           4           0          10           14          645-700                       0          0           0           1            1
700-715                  3           3           0          14           20          700-715                       2          0           0           0            2
715-730                  0          10           0          10           20          715-730                       0          0           0           0            0
730-745                  0           3           0          19           22          730-745                       0          3           0           5            8
745-800                  1           7           0          25           33          745-800                       0          0           0           3            3
800-815                  0           6           0           7           13          800-815                       0          0           0           1            1
815-830                  1           6           0           5           12          815-830                       0          0           0           1            1
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                             PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
630-730                  3          19           0          39           61          630-730                       2          1           0           4            7
645-745                  3          20           0          53           76          645-745                       2          3           0           6           11
700-800                  4          23           0          68           95          700-800                       2          3           0           8           13
715-815                  1          26           0          61           88          715-815                       0          3           0           9           12
730-830                  2          22           0          56           80          730-830                       0          3           0          10           13
Appendix E
Noise Measurements
Summary of Noise Measurements

Short-term and long-term noise measurements were taken at three
locations near the proposed project. The measurements were taken at the
following locations:

Short-term:
·   Civic Center entrance
·   Railroad Avenue and Civic Avenue

Long-term:
·   Power Avenue and Railroad Avenue

The short-term measurements were taken for 15 minutes and traffic
counts during the same sampling period were also recorded. The long-
term measurements were taken over a 24-hour period. The measured
noise levels are presented in more detail below.
                                            dBA




                        40
                             45
                                  50
                                       55
                                            60
                                                  65
                                                       70
                                                            75
                                                                 80
          12:31:00 PM

          12:31:58 PM

          12:32:56 PM

          12:33:54 PM

          12:34:52 PM

          12:35:50 PM

          12:36:48 PM

          12:37:46 PM




Maximum
          12:38:44 PM

          12:39:42 PM

          12:40:40 PM




Minimum
                                                                      Civic Center Entrance, June 7, 2006



          12:41:38 PM

          12:42:36 PM
                                                                                                            Short Term Noise Measurements At Civic Center Entrance




          12:43:34 PM

          12:44:32 PM

          12:45:30 PM
    Pittsburg Civic Center Noise Measurements
               Civic Center Entrance

              Lav=      61.0    dBA

          7-Jun-06     Lmax       L(99.9)
       12:31:00 PM      72.0         55.3
       12:31:58 PM      65.6         55.3
       12:32:56 PM      67.8         54.3
       12:33:54 PM      67.3         55.3
       12:34:52 PM      68.4         57.3
       12:35:50 PM      66.3         54.3
       12:36:48 PM      68.0         55.3
       12:37:46 PM      73.4         54.3
       12:38:44 PM      70.7         54.3
       12:39:42 PM      70.0         54.3
       12:40:40 PM      66.9         54.3
       12:41:38 PM      66.1         53.3
       12:42:36 PM      72.5         55.3
       12:43:34 PM      65.5         54.3
       12:44:32 PM      69.0         54.3
       12:45:30 PM      63.1         56.3

Temperature              84.0   F
Winds                5 to 10    Mps

Lav                     61.0    dBA
Lmax                    73.4    dBA
Lpk                    110.6    dBA

Vehicle Counts
                                Medium      Heavy
                     Cars       Trucks      Trucks
Civic
Center/Entrance        72             1         0
                                                 dBA




                        40
                             45
                                  50
                                       55
                                            60
                                                       65
                                                            70
                                                                 75
                                                                      80
                                                                           85
          11:41:00 AM

          11:41:57 AM

          11:42:54 AM

          11:43:51 AM

          11:44:48 AM

          11:45:45 AM

          11:46:42 AM

          11:47:39 AM




Maximum
          11:48:36 AM

          11:49:33 AM

          11:50:30 AM
                                                                                Ra ilroa d & Civic, June 7, 2006




Minimum
          11:51:27 AM

          11:52:24 AM

          11:53:21 AM

          11:54:18 AM

          11:55:15 AM
                                                                                                                   Short Term Noise Measurements At Railroad Avenue and Civic Avenue
   Pittsburg Civic Center Noise Measurements
         Railroad Avenue & Civic Avenue

       Lav=              66.1   dBA

   7-Jun-06          Lmax          L(99.9)
11:41:00 AM           74.4            56.4
11:41:57 AM           74.8            55.4
11:42:54 AM           71.2            57.4
11:43:51 AM           74.8            59.4
11:44:48 AM           78.8            56.4
11:45:45 AM           71.2            58.4
11:46:42 AM           74.4            58.4
11:47:39 AM           68.2            58.4
11:48:36 AM           69.7            60.4
11:49:33 AM           81.5            63.4
11:50:30 AM           81.2            60.4
11:51:27 AM           81.2            55.4
11:52:24 AM           72.0            56.4
11:53:21 AM           75.8            59.4
11:54:18 AM           73.6            57.4
11:55:15 AM           69.2            64.4

Temperature             80.0    F
Winds            5 to 7.5       Mps

Lav                      66.1   dBA
Lmax                     81.5   dBA
Lpk                     110.7   dBA

Vehicle Counts
                                Medium       Heavy
                 Cars           Trucks       Trucks
Railroad SB             143.0          3.0            1
Railroad NB             132.0          8.0            2
Civic                    23.0          1.0            2
              24-Hour Long Term Noise Measurements at Power Avenue and
              Railroad Avenue




                           LT1 - Pittsburg (June 7-8, 2006)

      100.0
       95.0
       90.0
       85.0
       80.0
       75.0
       70.0
dBA




       65.0
       60.0
       55.0
       50.0
       45.0
       40.0
       35.0
       30.0
              2:10 PM
                        3:46 PM
                                  5:22 PM
                                            6:58 PM
                                                      8:34 PM
                                                                10:10 PM
                                                                           11:46 PM
                                                                                      1:22 AM
                                                                                                2:58 AM
                                                                                                          4:34 AM
                                                                                                                    6:10 AM
                                                                                                                              7:46 AM
                                                                                                                                        9:22 AM
                                                                                                                                                  10:58 AM
                                                                                                                                                             12:34 PM




                                                                Leq                     Lmax                        L(99.9)
     Summary of Long Term Measurement
                                            community noise equivalent level (CNEL,
day-night average sound level, (Ldn, dBA)                   dBA)
                   68.2                                      68.7
Appendix F
Public Notice
NOTICE OF INTENT TO ADOPT A MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION and
                NOTICE OF PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
             (December 18, 2007 Through January 17, 2007) for the
              New East Contra Costa Courthouse in Pittsburg, CA

The purpose of this notice is to inform interested parties that the Administrative Office of the
Courts (AOC), the staff agency of the Judicial Council of California, is proposing that the
Judicial Council adopt a mitigated negative declaration for compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for construction of a new courthouse in Pittsburg, CA for
the Superior Court of California, County of Contra Costa. The new courthouse will improve
Contra Costa residents' access to judicial facilities, provide courthouse facilities that meet
current building standards for public use; provide facilities to support new judicial services and
additional judges; and provide improved security for public visitors, judges, jurors, and
courthouse staff. The AOC has prepared a Draft Initial Study and Mitigated Negative
Declaration to comply with CEQA requirements. The Initial Study and Mitigated Negative
Declaration disclose and evaluate the project's environmental impacts; as stated in the
documents, the AOC concludes that the project's potential significant environmental impacts
will be less than significant.

Project Location: The project site is located in the city of Pittsburg, approximately 0.2 mile
north of S.R. 4. The proposed courthouse will be immediately adjacent to the southern side of the
existing courthouse, southeast of the City of Pittsburg Civic Center, and southwest of the
buildings occupied by the Pittsburg Unified School District. The proposed project includes an
approximately 4-acre site north of Center Drive and west of Railroad Avenue. The Pittsburg
Community Center building at 2020 Railroad Avenue, the Pittsburg Federal Credit Union
building at 2010 Railroad Avenue, and portions of the existing Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse and
Pittsburg Unified School District's parking lot currently occupy the project site.

Project Description: The new courthouse will have two stories with a partial basement and will
be approximately 45 feet tall. It will provide approximately 73,500 square feet of space for seven
courtrooms, jury assembly rooms, hearing rooms, judges' chambers, jury deliberation rooms,
holding cells for in-custody detainees, offices for court staff, secure evidence storage, record
storage, and ancillary support spaces. The front of the building will face Center Drive. The
project includes a secured parking lot for approximately 40 vehicles and public parking lots for
approximately 160 vehicles.

The AOC expects to begin construction of the new courthouse in early 2010 and complete
construction of the new courthouse in 2011. The Superior Court will remain in the current
courthouse at 45 Civic Avenue during construction, and the court will move from the current
courthouse after completion of the new courthouse. After completion of the new courthouse, the
AOC project will demolish the current courthouse.
Public Review Period: The deadline for submission of comments regarding the Initial Study and
Negative Declaration is 5 PM on January 17, 2007. Please mail or FAX written comments to:
Mr. Jerry Ripperda; Administrative Office of the Courts; Northern/Central Regional Office; 2860
Gateway Oaks, Suite 400; Sacramento, CA 95833-3509 (FAX: 916-263-8140). You may e-mail
comments to: Jerry.Ripperda@jud.ca.gov.

Copies of the document are available at the Contra Costa Library branches in Pittsburg, Antioch,
Brentwood, and Martinez. Interested parties may also download copies of the document from
http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/programs/occm/projects_contracosta.htm. If you wish to obtain
copies of the document, have questions about the project, or wish to discuss the project, please
contact Mr. Jerry Ripperda, at 916-263-8865 or by e-mail at the address listed above.

Public Meeting: The AOC will hold a public meeting on January 9, 2007 from 7 PM to 8:30 PM
to discuss the CEQA documents and receive public comments. The meeting will be at the
Pittsburg-Delta Courthouse at 45 Civic Drive in Pittsburg, CA.
Appendix G
Mailing List
Mailing List for Public Notice
Source: Contra Costa County Assessor's Office
Mailing List for Copies of Draft Initial Study

Assemblyman Mark DeSaulnier
State Capitol
Room 4162
Sacramento CA 94249-0001
Assemblyman Mark DeSaulnier
District Office
815 Estudillo St.
Martinez CA 94553
Senator Tom Torlakson
State Capitol Room 4032
Sacramento CA 94249-0001
Senator Tom Torlakson
District Office
2801 Concord Blvd.
Concord CA 94519
Federal D. Glover
Contra Costa Board of Supervisors
Contra Costa County Administration Building
651 Pine Street
Martinez CA 94553-1229
Honorable Thomas Maddock
Presiding Judge
Superior Court of California, County of Contra Costa
649 Main St.
Martinez CA 94553
Ken Torre
Executive Officer
Superior Court of California, County of Contra Costa
649 Main St.
Martinez CA 94553
Jon Wintermeyer
Facilities Manager Superior Court of California,
County of Contra Costa
649 Main St.
Martinez CA 94553
Warren E. Rupf Sheriff, Contra Costa County
Contra Costa County Administration Building
651 Pine Street, 7th Floor
Martinez CA 94553-1229
David Coleman
Public Defender
County of Contra Costa
800 Ferry Street
Martinez CA 94553
Lionel Chatman
Chief Probation Officer
Contra Costa Probation Department
50 Douglas Drive, Suite 50
Martinez CA 94553
Robert J. Kochly
District Attorney
County of Contra Costa
100 11th Street
Martinez CA 94553
Dennis M. Barry, AICP
Community Development Director
County of Contra Costa
651 Pine Street, 4th Floor - North Wing
Martinez CA 94553
Donald Freitas Chair
Contra Costa Transportation Authority
3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 100
Pleasant Hill CA 94523
Jack Broadbent
Executive Officer
Bay Area Air Quality Management District Office
939 Ellis Street
San Francisco CA 94109
Henry Gardner
Executive Director
Association of Bay Area Governments
P.O. Box 2050
Oakland CA 94604-2050
Steve Heminger
Executive Director
Metropolitan Transportation Commission
101 Eighth Street
Oakland California 94607
Keith Richter - Fire Chief
Contra Costa County Fire Protection
District Administrative Office
2010 Geary Road
Pleasant Hill CA 94523
Mayor Michael Kee
City of Pittsburg City Council
Pittsburg Civic Center
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Vice Mayor William Glynn
City of Pittsburg City Council
Pittsburg Civic Center
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Will Casey
City of Pittsburg City Council
Pittsburg Civic Center
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Nancy Parent
City of Pittsburg City Council
Pittsburg Civic Center
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Ben Johnson
City of Pittsburg City Council
Pittsburg Civic Center
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Marc S. Grisham
City Manager
City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Brad Nail
Director of Economic Development
City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Joe Sbranti City
Engineer City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Melissa Ayres Director of Planning
City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Leigha Schmidt
Assistant Planner
City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Aaron L. Baker
Chief of Police City of Pittsburg
65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Garrett D. Evans Director,
Redevelopment Agency
City of Pittsburg 65 Civic Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Chamber of Commerce
City of Pittsburg
485 Railroad Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
P.O. Box 23964
Pleasant Hill CA 94523
Reed McLaughlin, Superintendent
Pittsburg Unified School District
2000 Railroad Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Contra Costa Public Library
Government Documents Librarian
80 Power Ave.
Pittsburg CA 94565-3482
Contra Costa Public Library
Government Documents Librarian
740 Court St.
Martinez CA 94553-1218
Contra Costa Public Library
Government Documents Librarian
501 W. 18th St.
Antioch CA 94509-2292
Contra Costa Public Library
Government Documents Librarian
751 Third St
Brentwood CA 94509-2292
Kerry Lyman
Pittsburg Unified School District
2000 Railroad Avenue
Pittsburg CA 94565
Principal
Pittsburg Senior High School
250 School Street
Pittsburg CA 94565
Appendix H
City of Pittsburg Comment
Letter
