A   P P E N D I X                   A




NOTICE                       OF          PREPARTION




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
                      NOTICE OF PREPARATION (NOP) OF A
                DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (EIR) FOR
                 ST JOHN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH IMPROVEMENTS

The Oakland Community and Economic Development Agency, Planning and Zoning Division,
has determined that a Environmental Impact Report (EIR) must be prepared for St. John's
Episcopal Church Parking and New Sanctuary Improvements (as identified in the Project
Description below), and is requesting comments on the scope and content of the EIR. The EIR
will address the potential physical, environmental effects of the project as identified in the Initial
Study for each of the following environmental topics outlined in the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA): Biological Resources, Hydrology/Water Quality, Transportation/Traffic,
and Mandatory Findings of Significance.

The City has prepared an Initial Study that identified areas of probable environmental effects. The
Initial Study is available at the Planning Division office, City of Oakland, Community and
Economic Development Agency, 250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite, Suite 3315 Oakland, CA
94612. The Initial Study may also be reviewed at the following website: www.oaklandnet.com
under the Planning and Zoning website link for City Planning Commission and Environmental
Impact Reports.

The City of Oakland is the Lead Agency for the Project and is the public agency with the greatest
responsibility for approving the Project or carrying it out. This notice is being sent to Responsible
Agencies and other interested parties. Responsible Agencies are those public agencies, besides
the City of Oakland, that also have a role in approving or carrying out the Project. When the Draft
EIR is published, it will be sent to all Responsible Agencies and to others who respond to this
NOP or who otherwise indicate that they would like to receive a copy. Responses to this NOP and
any questions or comments should be directed in writing to: Caesar Quitevis, Planner II, City of
Oakland, Community and Economic Development Agency, 250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite
2216, Oakland, CA 94612; (510) 238-6343 (phone); (510) 238-4730 (fax); or e-mailed to
clquitevis@oaklandnet.com. Comments on the NOP must be received at the above mailing or e-
mail address by 5:00 p.m. April 10, 2008. Please reference case number ER08-0001 in all
correspondence. In addition, comments may be provided at the EIR Scoping Meeting to be held
before the City Planning Commission. Comments should focus on discussing possible impacts on
the physical environment, ways in which potential adverse effects might be minimized, and
alternatives to the project in light of the EIR's purpose to provide useful and accurate information
about such factors.


PUBLIC HEARINGS: The City Planning Commission will conduct a public scoping hearing
on the Draft EIR for the project on April 2, 2008, at or near 6:00 p.m. in Hearing Room 1,
City Hall, 1 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Oakland, CA.
PROJECT TITLE:                  St John's Episcopal Church ­ Parking and New Sanctuary
                                Improvements

PROJECT LOCATION:               5914 Thornhill Drive, 5928 Thornhill Drive, 1707 Gouldin
                                Road, 1715 Gouldin Road, and 1676 Alhambra Lane

PROJECT SPONSOR:                Jerry Moran, Project Liaison
                                St John's Episcopal Church
                                1707 Gouldin Road
                                Oakland, CA 94611

EXISTING CONDITIONS:
The project site and surrounding properties are designated as Hillside Residential in the City of
Oakland General Plan and an R-30 One-Family Residential zoning. The existing site, which is
136,300 square feet or 3.13 acres, is located in a predominantly residential area of Oakland with
substantial tree cover, some of which are subject to the City of Oakland tree preservation
ordinance. Another natural feature of the site is an open stretch of Temescal Creek,
approximately 200 feet in length and subject to the City of Oakland Creek Protection
Ordinance.The site is bounded by Gouldin Road to the east, and single-family residential homes
to the north, west, and south. The Church rectory is located on a separate parcel at 1715 Gouldin
Road immediately southeast of the Church parcel. Thornhill Elementary School is located
adjacent to a portion of the church property to the west at 5880 Thornhill Drive. Two additional
parcels are owned by the Church, both single-family homes at 5914 Thornhill Road, and 1676
Alhambra Lane. The project site includes the existing sanctuary, offices, and two paved parking
areas. The project site also includes a vacant single-family residential home at 5928 Thornhill
Drive, which will be demolished as part of the project. The project site does not appear on the
Cortese List.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Phase 1:  Reconfiguration of site circulation, parking, bridge and creek improvements

Phase 1 of the project, includes demolishing the house at 5928 Thornhill Road, abandoning a
portion of the shared access road with the home at 5940 Thornhill Road, and constructing a new
access bridge over Temescal Creek. Primary ingress and egress would be via a new lane leading
from the new bridge to an auto circle, which would allow pick-up and drop-off activities as well
as provide improved fire truck access to the sanctuary. Perpendicular parking spaces would be
provided along the new lane, as well as a separate pedestrian path, which would run parallel to
the new lane. Existing parking areas near the sanctuary would be retained, and the existing
parking along the upper parking lot would be retained and resurfaced. The Alhambra Lane
driveway would be retained to allow egress for people parking in this area. The number of
parking spaces would be increased from 40 spaces plus 1 ADA space to 49 spaces plus 1 van and
1 ADA space. Phase 1 also includes the removal of 2,300 square feet of asphalt parking lot
abutting the eastern side of the existing sanctuary building and abandonment and removal of
paving at the current, steep Gouldin Road entry. This area would be landscaped under Phase 2.

As a separate project component, Temescal Creek would be restored along its reach of
approximately 200 linear feet within the project site boundaries. The creek restoration design
includes moving the toe of the steep bank along the north side 10 feet towards the opposite side.
The bank would be filled with excavated material and regraded to a 50 percent slope. The south
side of the creek bank would also be moved from between five to seven feet, and the slopes
would be regraded to 50 percent or less. The small terrace that currently exists on the south side
A   P P E N D I X                   B




INITIAL STUDY




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH PROJECT
INITIAL STUDY / ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
CHECKLIST


Prepared for City of Oakland

File No. ER-080001

February 2008




Design, Community & Environment
1600 Shattuck Avenue, Suite 300
Berkeley, CA 94709
510.848.3815
ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH PROJECT
INITIAL STUDY / ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
CHECKLIST
Table of Contents


                                                             Page


Project Information                                               1
Environmental Factors Potentially Affected                      14
Determination                                                   15
Evaluation of Environmental Impacts                             16
Environmental Checklist                                         17
   I.             Aesthetics                                    17
   II.            Agricultural Resources                        19
   III.           Air Quality                                   19
   IV.            Biological Resources                          25
   V.             Cultural Resources                            27
   VI.            Geology and Soils                             30
   VII.           Hazards and Hazardous Materials               35
   VIII.          Hydrology and Water Quality                   37
   IX.            Land Use and Planning                         44
   X.             Mineral Resources                             44
   XI.            Noise                                         45
   XII.           Population and Housing                        50
   XIII.          Public Services                               50
   XIV.           Recreation                                    51
   XV.            Transportation/Traffic                        51
   XVI.           Utilities and Service Systems                 54
   XVII.          Mandatory Findings of Significance            56




St. Johns Church Project                                              DC&E
                                                       ii   February 13, 2008
                                                                  Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



    List of Figures
    Figure 1 Regional Location                                                                         4
    Figure 2 Local Setting                                                                             5
    Figure 3 Existing Land Use                                                                         6
    Figure 4 Proposed Land Use                                                                         7
    Figure 5 Site Plan                                                                                 8
    Figure 6 Phasing Plan                                                                              9
    Figure 7 Proposed Circulation Plan                                                                 10
    Figure 8 Phase 2 Sanctuary Conceptual Plans ­ Floor Plan                                           11
    Figure 9 Phase 2 Sanctuary Conceptual Plans ­ West Section                                         12
    Figure 10 Phase 2 Sanctuary Conceptual Plans ­ East Section                                        13




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                    DC&E
                                                  iii                                             February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




St. Johns Church Project                                          DC&E
                                                   iv   February 13, 2008
City of Oakland
File No. ER-080001
Reference No. CMD06546, TPM9327, CP06151, T06141




INITIAL STUDY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
CHECKLIST
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)




Project Information

1. Project Title: St. John's Episcopal Church Parking and New Sanctuary Improvements

2. Lead Agency Name and Address:          City of Oakland
                                          Community and Economic Development Agency
                                          Planning Division
                                          250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 3315
                                          Oakland, CA 94612

3. Contact Person and Phone Number:       Cesar Quitevis, Planner II
                                          (510) 238-6343

4. Project Location:                      5914 Thornhill Drive, 5928 Thornhill Drive, 1707 Gouldin Road,
                                          1715 Gouldin Road, 1676 Alhambra Lane

5. Project Sponsor's Name and Address: Jerry Moran, Project Liaison
                                       St John's Episcopal Church
                                       1707 Gouldin Road
                                       Oakland, CA 94611

6. General Plan Designation:              Hillside Residential

7. Zoning:                                R-30

8. Description of Project:                Phase 1: Reconfiguration of site circulation and parking.
                                          Phase 2: Construction of new 5,500 square-foot sanctuary
                                                   building (A detailed project description is provided as
                                                   Item 12 below).

9. Surrounding Land Uses and Setting:     Single-family residential on sloped, vegetated terrain to the north,
                                          east, and south. Elementary school facility to the west.

10. Actions/permits which may be required , and for which this document provides CEQA clearance,
    include without limitation:
      · Conditional Use Permit

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                     DC&E
                                                 1                                                 February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



         ·     Tree Removal Permit
         ·     Creek Protection Permit
         ·     Regular Design Review
         ·     Tentative Parcel Map

11. Other Public Agencies Interested in the Project: California Department of Fish and Game, San Francisco
                                                     Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board, U.S. Army
                                                     Corps of Engineers.

12. Detailed Description of the Project:
      Regional and Local Setting
      The project is located in the Montclair District of Oakland, California. Regional and local settings are shown
      on Figure 1 and Figure 2 respectively.
      Existing Site Character
      The existing site, which is 136,300 square feet or 3.13 acres, is located in a predominantly residential area of
      Oakland with substantial tree cover. Some of these trees fall under the City of Oakland tree preservation
      ordinance, including Coast Live Oak, Coast Redwood, Douglas Fir and Giant Redwood. The site is bounded
      by Gouldin Road to the east, and single-family residential homes to the north, west and south. The Church
      rectory is located on a separate parcel at 1715 Gouldin Road immediately southeast of the Church parcel.
      Thornhill Elementary School is located adjacent to a portion of the church property to the west at 5880
      Thornhill Drive. Two additional parcels are owned by the Church; both single-family homes at 5914
      Thornhill Road, and 1676 Alhambra Lane. Figure 3 shows existing land uses in the site vicinity. The project
      site includes the existing sanctuary, offices and two paved parking areas (which are currently non-compliant
      with current code regulations). The project site also includes a vacant single-family residential home at 5928
      Thornhill, which will be demolished as part of the project.

      Access to the site is from Gouldin Road, via a narrow driveway with a steep decline. Given the width and
      angle of the driveway, it is limited to ingress only. Egress is provided by a connection to Alhambra Lane,
      which terminates at Thornhill Road.

      Project Characteristics
      The section provides an overview of the proposed facilities and amenities included in the Project. Figures 4
      through 7 provide information on the proposed land uses, site and landscape plan, phasing plan, and
      circulation plan respectively.

      Phase 1: Phase 1 of the project, scheduled to begin in late-summer/early fall of 2008, includes demolishing
      the house at 5928 Thornhill Road, abandonment of a portion of the shared access road with the home at 5940
      Thornhill Road, and construction of a new bridge over Temescal Creek that will connect to a new internal
      travel lane and parking area. The proposed bridge would be 25 feet wide, allowing for a 20 foot drive aisle
      and a 5-foot pedestrian walkway. The bridge would be constructed of steel and concrete.

      As shown in Figure 7, primary ingress and egress would be via a new lane leading from the new bridge to an
      auto circle, that would allow pick-up and drop-off activities as well as provide improved fire truck access to
      the sanctuary. Perpendicular parking spaces would be provided along the new lane. A separate pedestrian
      path would run parallel to the lane. Existing parking areas near the sanctuary would be retained, and the
      existing parking along the upper parking lot would be retained and resurfaced. The Alhambra Lane driveway
      would be retained to allow egress for people parking in this area.


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                            DC&E
                                                       2                                                  February 13, 2008
                                                                                 Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      The Alhambra Lane driveway is currently proposed to remain at existing grade. However, the feasibility of
      smoothing the grade transition between the driveway and Alhambra Lane will be studied. The proposed auto
      circle would also be at existing grade. The existing parking lot would be lowered approximately seven feet to
      the same level as the existing sanctuary, at an elevation of 618 feet. The new lane leading from the proposed
      vehicular bridge to the proposed auto circle would be filled closest to the auto circle just north of Alhambra
      Court. The fill would meet the grade of the proposed auto circle and a three-foot retaining wall would be
      built on the southern edge of the perpendicular parking to be provided along the lane, holding the fill and
      leaving a gap for a pedestrian pathway that would cut across the lane to Alhambra Court. No public
      circulation is currently proposed for Alhambra Court, which is a privately maintained private access
      easement. The lane would slope down toward the proposed vehicular bridge.

      In order to reduce the effect of adding increased impervious surfaces to the site, a variety of features would be
      incorporated into the proposed parking area, including use of crushed granite for parking spaces along the
      lane, use of pervious paving materials, and provision of stormwater detention facilities under the parking area.

      The number of parking spaces would be increased from 40 spaces plus 1 ADA space to 49 spaces plus 1 van
      and 1 ADA space. The parking space dimensions, aisle widths and space layouts would all be in compliance
      with the City of Oakland standards.

      Phase 1 also includes the removal of 2,300 square feet of asphalt parking lot abutting the eastern side of the
      existing sanctuary building and abandonment of and removal of paving at the current, steep Gouldin Road
      entry. This area (future Phase 2 site) would be landscaped.

      As a separate project component, Temescal Creek would be restored along its reach of approximately 200
      linear feet within the project site boundaries. The creek restoration design includes moving the toe of the
      steep bank along the north side 10 feet towards the opposite side. The bank would be filled with excavated
      material and regraded to a more stable 50 percent slope. The south side of the creek bank would also be
      moved from between five to seven feet, and the slopes would be regraded to 50 percent or less. The small
      terrace that currently exists on the south side of the creek would be removed. The stream channel, which is
      currently undermining the stability of Thornhill Road, would be moved seven to ten feet to the south, and
      straightened throughout the reach. Trees and shrubs removed as part of the bank stabilization will be replaced
      with native species to provide better habitat value.

      The project proposes the removal of 46 trees, 44 of which fall under the City of Oakland tree preservation
      ordinance. Five of these trees are proposed to be removed for creek restoration, specifically re-alignment and
      revegetation with native plant species. The remaining trees are proposed to be removed for construction of
      the new bridge and the new lane to the existing sanctuary building and offices. All trees proposed for
      removal would be replaced with native species.

      Phase 2: Phase 2 would entail construction of a new sanctuary building between 5,000 and 5,500 square feet
      and one story tall (shown in Figures 8, 9 and 10) at the location of the current Gouldin Road entrance to the
      Church. Conceptual plans for the new sanctuary call for a 33-feet-high structure and a cupola with a bell.
      The new sanctuary would be constructed of wood, stucco and a composition roof material, to match the style
      and materials of the existing sanctuary building. As part of this phase, the patio between the existing building
      and the new sanctuary would be renovated and expanded. Upon completion of the new sanctuary building,
      the existing building would be converted into a community hall, fellowship space. There would be no
      increase in capacity for parking when both buildings are in use. Both buildings would be in use only when
      adults are using one building and children (non-drivers) are using the other building. The timing of Phase 2 is
      not known at this time.



St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                       3                                                         February 13, 2008
                                                  ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                      PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 EXPANSION INITIAL STUDY




                               §
                               ¨
                               ¦
                               80



Marin                                 Contra Costa
County                                  County




                                                                  ÿ
                                                                  |
                                                                  24




                                                   [Project Site
                            Oakland                     ÿ
                                                        |
                                                        13




         San Francisco

                                                                       Alameda
         San Francisco                                                  County
            County



                San Mateo
                 County


                              San Francisco Bay


                                                                             §
                                                                             ¨
                                                                             ¦   880


                                                   ÿ
                                                   |
                                                   92


  0      2      4 Miles




                                                                          FIGURE 1

                                                             REGIONAL LOCATION
                                                                                          ST. JOHN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                               PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 EXPANSION INITIAL STUDY




                                                                                                   Contra Costa County

                       ÿ
                       |
                       24




                      ÿ
                      |
                      13




                                                            .
                                                       ll Dr
                                                                          Project Site
                                                     r nh i
                                                                          [
                                                    T ho



                                                                                               .
                                                                                      e   Rd
                                                                                   ak
                            Moraga A
                                    v e.                                      Sn

                                                Montclair
                                                 Village
                                                     Mo
                                                         rag
                                                              aA
                                                                ve
                                                                     .




                                                                          ÿ
                                                                          |
                                                                          13

    Alameda County

                                                                      .
                                                                   vd
                                                              Bl
                                                         rk
                                                    Pa


0         0.25       0.5                   1 Mile




                                                                                                                FIGURE 2

                                                                                                     LOCAL LOCATION
                                                                                        S T. J O H N ' S E P I S C O PA L C H U R C H
                                                             P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




                                              G ou
                                                     ldin
                                                            Roa
                                                                  d
     rive




                                 Pr
                                  iva
  hill D




                                   te
                                      Dr
                                        ive
Thorn


                       k
                   ree
                lC
              hil
             orn
           Th




 Alh
    am
      bra
          Lan
             e

                            Tho
                           Elem rnhill
                               ent
                                   ary


Property Line
Existing Structures
Streets




                                                                                                                             FIGURE 3

                                                                                                          EXISTING LAND USE
                                                                                               S T. J O H N ' S E P I S C O PA L C H U R C H
                                                                    P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




                                                   Gou
                                                         ldin
                                                                Roa
                                                                       d
      ve




                                  Pr
   ill Dri




                                   iva
                                    te
                                       Dr
                                         ive
      h
Thorn


                        k
                    ree
              ill C
                h
            orn
          Th




 Alh
    am
      bra
          Lan
             e

                             Tho
                            Elem rnhill
                                ent
                                    ary


Property Line                                  Proposed Sanctuary
Existing Structures                            Curb/Sidewalk Edge
Streets




                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 4

                                                                                                               PROPOSED LAND USE
                           S t. J o h n ' s E p i s c o pa l C h u r c h
P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




                                                                FIGURE 5

                                                            site plan
                           S T. J O H N ' S E P I S C O PA L C H U R C H
P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




                                                                FIGURE 6

                                                     PHASING PLAN
                           S t. J o h n ' s E p i s c o pa l C h u r c h
P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




                                                                FIGURE 7

                           p r o p o se d c i r c u l a t i o n p l a n
                                                                                     S t. J o h n ' s E p i s c o pa l C h u r c h
                                                          P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




  NORTH
           0           15         30 Feet

Source: Turnbull, Griffin & Haesloop Architects



                                                                                                                          FIGURE 8

                                                  PHA S E 2 S ANCTUAR Y CONC E PTUAL PLAN - F LOOR PLAN
                                                                                        S t. J o h n ' s E p i s c o pa l C h u r c h
                                                             P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




   Not to scale

Source: Turnbull, Griffin & Haesloop Architects



                                                                                                                             FIGURE 9

                                                  PHA S E 2 S ANCTUAR Y CONC E PTUAL PLAN - W E S T S E CTION
                                                                                        S t. J o h n ' s E p i s c o pa l C h u r c h
                                                             P H A S E   1   A N D   P H A S E 2 E X P A N S I O N I N I T I A L S T U D Y




    0           15         30 Feet

Source: Turnbull, Griffin & Haesloop Architects



                                                                                                                            FIGURE 10

                                                  PHA S E 2 S ANCTUAR Y CONC E PTUAL PLAN - E A S T S E CTION
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




Environmental Factors Potentially Affected
The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one
impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages, which will
be further studied in the EIR. No other environmental factors will be further studied in the EIR.


     Aesthetics                                    Agricultural Resources               Air Quality

     Biological Resources                          Cultural Resources                   Geology/Soils

     Hazards/Hazardous Materials                   Hydrology/Water Quality              Land Use/Planning

     Mineral Resources                             Noise                                Population/Housing

     Public Services                               Recreation                           Transportation/Traffic

     Utilities/Service Systems                     Mandatory Findings of Significance




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                               DC&E
                                                                14                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




Evaluation of Environmental Impacts

CEQA requires that an explanation of all answers be provided along with this checklist, including a
discussion of ways to mitigate any significant effects identified.

Once the lead agency has determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then the checklist
answers must indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less than significant with mitigation,
less than significant with development standards, or less than significant. As defined here, a "Potentially
Significant Impact" is appropriate if the significant effect is considered to have a substantial or potentially
substantial adverse effect on the environment. If there are one or more "Potentially Significant Impact"
entries when the determination is made, an EIR is required.

A "Less than Significant with Mitigation" answer applies where incorporation of a mitigation measure has
reduced an effect from a "Potentially Significant Impact to a "Less than Significant Impact" The lead
agency must describe the mitigation measures, and briefly explain how they reduce the effect to a less than
significant level.

A "Less than Significant with Development Standard" answer applies where incorporation of a
development standard has reduced an effect from a "Potentially Significant Impact to a "Less than
Significant Impact." The City's Uniformly Applied Development Standards are incorporated into projects
as conditions of approval regardless of a project's environmental determination. As applicable,
the Uniformly Applied Development Standards are adopted as requirements of an individual project when it
is approved by the City and are designed to, and will, substantially mitigate environmental effects. In
reviewing project applications, the City determines which of the standard conditions are applied, based
upon the zoning district, community plan, and the type(s) of permit(s)/approvals(s) required for the project.
Depending on the specific characteristics of the project type and/or project site, the city will determine
which Development Standards apply to each project; for example, Development Standards related to creek
protection permits will only be applied projects on creekside properties.

The Development Standards incorporate development policies and standards from various adopted plans,
policies, and ordinances (such as the Oakland Planning and Municipal Codes, Oakland Creek Protection,
Stormwater Water Management and Discharge Control Ordinance, Oakland Tree Protection Ordinance,
Oakland Grading Regulations, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
requirements, Housing Element-related mitigation measures, California Building Code, and Uniform Fire
Code, among others), which have been found to substantially mitigate environmental effects. Where there
are peculiar circumstances associated with a project or project site that will result in significant
environmental impacts despite implementation of the Development Standards, the City will determine
whether there are feasible mitigation measures to reduce the impact to less than significant levels in the
course of appropriate CEQA review (mitigated negative declarations or EIRs).

A "Less than Significant Impact" answer applies where the project creates no substantial or potentially
substantial adverse effect on the environment.

A "No Impact" answer applies where a project does not create any impact in that category. A "No Impact"
answer needs to be adequately supported by the information sources a lead agency cites in the parentheses
following each question. A "No Impact answer is adequately supported if the referenced information
sources show that the impact simply doesn't apply to projects like the one under involved. A "No Impact"
answer should be explained where it is based on project ­specific factors as well as general standards.



St. Johns Church Project                                                                                             DC&E
                                                      16                                                   February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




Environmental Checklist
                                                                                    Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                    Significant                           Significant
                                                                       Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                       Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                         Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
I. AESTHETICS -- Would the project:

a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista?                                                          

b) Substantially damage scenic resources, including, but not
limited to, trees, rock outcroppings, and historic buildings
within a state or locally designated scenic highway?

c) Substantially degrade the existing visual character or quality
of the site and its surroundings?

d) Create a new source of substantial light or glare which
would substantially and adversely affect day or nighttime
views in the area?

e) Introduce landscape that now or in the future cast substantial
shadows on existing solar collectors (in conflict
with California Public Resource Code Section 25980-25986)?

f) Cast shadows that substantially impairs the function of a
building using passive solar heat collection, solar collectors or
hot water heating, or photovoltaic solar collectors?

g) Cast a shadow that substantially impairs the beneficial use
of any public or quasi-public park, lawn, garden, or open
space?


h) Cast shadow on an historic resource, as defined by CEQA
Section 15064.5(a), such that the shadow would materially
impair the resource's historic significance by materially
altering those physical characteristics of the resource that
convey its historical significance and that justify its inclusion
on or eligibility for listing in the National Register of Historic
Places, California Register of Historical Resources, Local
Register of Historic Resources or a historical resource survey
form (DPR Form 523) with a rating of 1-5?

         Discussion of questions (a) through (h):
         There are no scenic vistas from the site; therefore, the project would not have a substantial adverse effect
         on a scenic vista, and there would be no impact. Also, because the site is not located within proximity of
         a state or locally designated scenic highway, there would be no impact associated with such designated
         highways. The project would be constructed in a wooded, residential neighborhood.



St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                        17                                                          February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



         Both phases of the project would change the visual character of the site and its surroundings. Although
         the project would alter the visual character of the site and surroundings, the changes would be less than
         significant because the site is currently developed. Construction of the bridge and the access lane would
         require removal of trees which will increase the visibility to and from that section of Thornhill Drive and
         adjoining properties. However, recontouring the creek embankments and landscaping with native species
         would improve the visual character of what is now a heavily eroded creek. Although the parking lane
         would be visible from Thornhill, the landscaping and use of crushed granite would provide visual relief
         that would soften the view. In addition, because significant redwood and oak trees would be retained, the
         view would be filtered.

         The proposed new sanctuary building would be built of wood and stucco, and the character of the
         building would be in harmony with the existing buildings so as to blend in with the existing environment.
         The planned height of the building of 33 feet would not impeded on the single-family residence to the
         south, whose living room window would be at an elevation five feet higher than the proposed height of
         the new sanctuary building.

         The project will not introduce new landscape that now or in the future will cast substantial shadows on
         existing solar collectors. The proposed new sanctuary building is the only part of the project that may
         cast shadows; however, there are no existing solar collectors on the site that would be affected. The
         sanctuary building would be built in a portion of the property that is already shaded and sits near the
         bottom of a graded slope. As noted above, creek restoration, including new landscaping and native plant
         species, would increase sunlight access along Thornhill Drive. There are no buildings on the site that use
         passive solar heat collection, solar collectors, hot water heating or photovoltaic solar collectors; therefore,
         the project would not able to cast shadows that would impair the function of such buildings. Similarly,
         the proposed sanctuary would not cast shadows that substantially impair the beneficial use of any public
         or quasi-public space on the property because the proposed sanctuary is already located in a wooded,
         shaded area on the site.

         As required for all development projects that will have new exterior lighting, the project applicant would
         be required to implement and comply with the following uniformly-applied standard condition of
         approval, which would help reduce the potential for aesthetic hazards associated with substantial light or
         glare which would substantially and adversely affect day or nighttime views in the area:

            STANDARD CONDITION AES-1: Lighting Plan
            Prior to the issuance of an electrical or building permit

            a)             The proposed lighting fixtures shall be adequately shielded to a point below the light bulb
                           and reflector and that prevent unnecessary glare onto adjacent properties.

            b)             Plans shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Division and the Electrical Services
                           Division of the Public Works Agency for review and approval.

            c)             All lighting shall be architecturally integrated into the site.

                                                                                          Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                          Significant                           Significant
                                                                             Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                             Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                               Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


i) Require an exception (variance) to the policies and
regulations in the General Plan, Planning Code, or Uniform
Building Code, and the exception causes a fundamental
conflict with policies and regulations in the General Plan,


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                            DC&E
                                                               18                                                         February 13, 2008
                                                                                   Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



Planning Code, and Uniform Building Code addressing the
Provision of adequate light related to appropriate uses?

         Discussion of question (i):
         The project does not require exceptions to any of the documents referenced above. Therefore, there is no
         impact.

j) Create winds exceeding 36 mph for more than 1 hour during
daylight hours during the year. The wind analysis only needs
to be done if the project's height is 100 feet or greater
(measured to the roof) and one of the following conditions
exist: a) the project is located adjacent to a substantial water
body (i.e., Oakland Estuary, Lake Merritt or San Francisco
Bay); or b) the project is located in Downtown?

         Discussion of question (j):
         The project does not contain any components that would be over 100 feet in height, nor generate winds.
         Therefore, there is no impact.


II. AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:

a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of
Statewide Importance (Farmland), as shown on the maps
prepared pursuant to the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring
Program of the California Resource Agency, to non-
agricultural use?

b) Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a
Williamson Act contract?

c) Involve other changes in the existing environment which,
due to their location or nature, could result in conversion of
Farmland to non-agricultural use?

         Discussion of question (a) through (c):
         The project site, is not designated as farmland and is not used for agricultural purposes. There are no
         lands zoned for agricultural use, nor are there properties in the area under Williamson Act Contract. In
         addition, the project would not cause changes which could result in the conversion of Farmland.
         Therefore, there would be no impact.
                                                                                  Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                  Significant                           Significant
                                                                     Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                     Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                       Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
III. AIR QUALITY -- Would the project:

Construction Period Impacts
a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable
air quality plan?




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                     DC&E
                                                       19                                                          February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant
concentrations?


         Discussion of questions (a) and (d):
         During construction, the project would generate short-term emissions of criteria pollutants, including
         suspended and inhalable particulate matter and equipment exhaust emissions. Project-related construction
         activities would include demolition, site preparation, earthmoving and general construction
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                        activities.
         Emissions generated from these activities include dust (including PM-10 and PM-2.5) primarily from
         "fugitive" sources, such as soil disturbance; combustion emissions of criteria air pollutants (reactive
         organic gasses [ROG], nitrogen oxides [NOx], carbon monoxide [CO], sulfur oxides [SOx], and PM-10)
         primarily from operation of construction equipment and from worker vehicles; and evaporative emissions
         (ROG) from asphalt paving.

         The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) CEQA Guidelines recognize that
         construction equipment emits ozone precursors, but indicate that such emissions are included in the
         emission inventory that is the basis for regional air quality plans. Therefore, construction emissions of
         ROG and NOx are not expected to impede attainment or maintenance of ozone standards in the Bay Area.
         The impact of construction equipment exhaust would therefore be less than significant.

         Construction-related fugitive dust emissions would vary from day to day, depending on the level and type
         activity, silt content of the soil, and the weather. In the absence of controls, construction activities may
         result in significant quantities of dust, and as a result, local visibility and PM-10 and PM-2.5
         concentrations may be adversely affected on a temporary and intermittent basis during the construction
         period. In addition, the fugitive dust generated by construction would include not only PM-10, but also
         larger particles, which would fall out of the atmosphere within several hundred feet of the site and could
         result in nuisance-type impacts. The BAAQMD's approach to analyses of fugitive emissions from
         construction is to emphasize implementation of effective and comprehensive dust control measures rather
         than detailed quantification of emissions. The District considers any project's construction-related
         impacts to be less than significant if the required dust-control measures are implemented. Without these
         measures, the impact is generally considered to be significant, particularly if sensitive land uses are
         located in the project vicinity. In the case of this project, residential land uses are located immediately
         adjacent to the boundaries of the project site. The proposed project would be subject to the measures
         recommended by the BAAQMD (listed below), which are uniformly applied by the City as standard
         conditions of approval, and which would reduce the impact of fugitive dust emissions to less than
         significant.

            STANDARD CONDITION AQ-1 (Dust Control): During construction, the project sponsor shall
            require the construction contractor to implement the following measures required as part of
            BAAQMD's basic dust control procedures required for construction sites. These include:

                 a)        Water all active construction areas at least twice daily. Watering should be sufficient to
                           prevent airborne dust from leaving the site. Increased watering frequency may be
                           necessary whenever wind speeds exceed 15 miles per hour. Reclaimed water should be
                           used whenever possible.

                 b)        Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose materials or require all trucks to
                           maintain at least two feet of freeboard (i.e., the minimum required space between the top
                           of the load and the top of the trailer).



            1
                Particles that are 10 microns or less in diameter and 2.5 microns or less in diameter, respectively

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                        DC&E
                                                                     20                                               February 13, 2008
                                                                                              Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                 c)        Pave, apply water three times daily, or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers on all unpaved
                           access roads, parking areas and staging areas at construction sites.

                 d)        Sweep daily (with water sweepers using reclaimed water if possible) all paved access
                           roads, parking areas and staging areas at construction sites.

                 e)        Sweep streets (with water sweepers using reclaimed water if possible) at the end of each
                           day if visible soil material is carried onto adjacent paved roads.

                 f)        Limit the amount of the disturbed area at any one time, where feasible.

                 g)        Suspend excavation and grading activity when winds (instantaneous gusts) exceed 25
                           mph.

                 h)        Pave all roadways, driveways, sidewalks, etc. as soon as feasible. In addition, building
                           pads should be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil binders are
                           used.

                 i)        Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as feasible.

                 j)        Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers to exposed stockpiles
                           (dirt, sand, etc.).

                 k)        Limit traffic speeds on unpaved roads to 15 miles per hour.

                 l)        Clean off the tires or tracks of all trucks and equipment leaving any unpaved construction
                           areas.

         STANDARD CONDITION AQ-2 (Construction Emissions): To minimize construction equipment
         emissions during construction, the project sponsor shall require the constructions contractor to:

                 a)        Demonstrate compliance with Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD)
                           Regulation 2, Rule 1 (General Requirements) for all portable construction equipment
                           subject to that rule. BAAQMD Regulation 2, Rule 1 provides the issuance of authorities to
                           construct and permits to operate certain types of portable equipment used for
                           construction purposes (e.g., gasoline or diesel-powered engines used in conjunction with
                           power generation, pumps, compressors, and cranes) unless such equipment complies with
                           all applicable requirements of the "CAPCOA" Portable Equipment Registration Rule" or
                           with all applicable requirements of the Statewide Portable Equipment Registration
                           Program. This exemption is provided in BAAQMD Rule 2-1-105.

                 b)        Perform low- NOx tune-ups on all diesel-powered construction equipment greater than 50
                           horsepower (no more than 30 days prior to the start of use of that equipment). Periodic
                           tune-ups (every 90 days) shall be performed for such equipment used continuously during
                           the construction period.

      Demolition may also result in airborne entrainment of asbestos, a toxic air contaminant, particularly where
      structures built prior to 1980, such as the existing building on the project site, are being demolished.
      However, construction and demolition activities would not result in the  2
                                                                                 release of any naturally-occurring
      asbestos due to soil composition and underlying geologic formations. As required for all development

            2
                Land/Marine Geotechnics, Geotechnical Investigation: St. John's Episcopal Church Entry Road, Bridge Parking and New
                Sanctuary, Oakland, California, May 2005.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                DC&E
                                                                 21                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      projects involving demolition of existing buildings, the project applicant would be required to implement
      and comply with the following uniformly-applied standard condition of approval, which would help reduce
      the potential for public health hazards associated with airborne asbestos fibers or lead dust to a less than
      significant level:

            STANDARD CONDITION AQ-3: If asbestos-containing material (ACM) are found to be present
            in building materials to be removed, demolished or disposed of, the project applicant shall submit
            specifications signed by a certified asbestos consultant for the removal, encapsulation, or
            enclosure of the identified ACM in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, including
            but not necessarily limited to: California Code of Regulations, Title 8; Business and professions
            Code; Division 3; California Health and Safety Code 25915-25919.7; and BAAQMD, Regulation
            11, Rule 2 (Asbestos Demolition, Renovation and Manufacturing), as may be amended.

                                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
Operational Impacts
a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable
air quality plan?

b) Violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially
to an existing or projected air quality violation?

d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant
concentrations?

f) Contribute to CO concentrations exceeding the State AAQS
of 9 ppm averaged over 8 hours and 20 ppm for 1 hour.
Pursuant to BAAQMD, localized carbon monoxide
concentrations should be estimated for projects in which (1)
vehicle emissions of CO would exceed 550 lb/day; (2)
intersections or roadway links would decline to LOS E or F;
(3) intersections operating at LOS E or F will have reduced
LOS; or (4) traffic volume increase on nearby roadways by
10% or more unless the increase in traffic volume is less than
100 vehicles per hour?

g) Result in total emissions of ROG, NOx, or PM10 of 15 tons
per year or greater, or 80 pounds (36 kilograms) per day or
greater. The Port of Oakland maintains PM10 and PM2.5
monitoring stations in West Oakland and data from these
stations should be obtained and used?

      Discussion of questions (a), (b), (d), (f) and (g):
      After construction of the project, and the eventual construction of the Phase 2 3
                                                                                        Sanctuary, the projected
      increase in traffic volume is two vehicle trips during the weekday peak hour. This small increase in peak
      hour traffic would generate criteria pollutant levels far below the significance criterion (g) (specifically, 80
      lbs./day), which are the thresholds identified by the BAAQMD. Therefore, the project would not violate
      any air quality standard or contribute substantially to an existing or projected air quality violation.

            3
                Dowling Associates, Inc., Traffic Study ­ Renovation at St. John's Episcopal Church, Oakland, April 9, 2007.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                                   22                                                            February 13, 2008
                                                                                              Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




      The small increase in peak hour traffic would also affect localized carbon monoxide (CO) concentrations at
      nearby intersections. However, CO levels have been declining for a number of years and are expected to
      continue to do so in the future, and the relatively few trips that the project would generate would not likely
      exceed the state CO standard at any local intersection.

      As a result, the project would not expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations. The
      impact would be less than significant.

                                                                                             Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                             Significant                           Significant
                                                                                Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                  Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
Cumulative Impacts
c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any
criteria pollutant for which the project region is non-attainment
under an applicable federal or state ambient air quality
standard (including releasing emissions which exceed
quantitative thresholds for ozone precursors)?

k) A project's contribution to cumulative impacts is considered
"considerable" (i.e., significant) when the project results in any
individually significant impact?

l) Result in a fundamental conflict with the local general plan,
when the general plan is consistent with the regional air quality
plan? When the general plan fundamentally conflicts with the
regional air quality plan, then if the contribution of the
proposed project is cumulatively considerable when analyzed
the impact to air quality should be considered significant?

      Discussion of questions (c), (k) and (l)
      The Bay Area is currently4
                                  in non-attainment for state standards for PM-10 and PM-2.5, and for state and
      federal ozone standards. For any project that does not individually have significant operational air quality
      impacts, the determination of significant cumulative impact is based on an evaluation of the consistency of
      the project with the local general plan with the regional air quality plan. The proposed project would not
      require a General Plan Amendment, therefore, it would be considered to be consistent with the General plan
      of the City of Oakland. The General Plan is consistent wit the recently adopted 2005 Bay Area Ozone
      Strategy. Therefore, the project's effects are not considered cumulatively considerable, and are less than
      significant.
                                                                                             Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                             Significant                           Significant
                                                                                Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                  Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


e) Frequently create substantial objectionable odors affecting a
substantial number of people?


            4
          Ozone is not emitted directly into the atmosphere, but is a secondary air pollutant produced in the atmosphere through a
complex series of photochemical reactions involving ROG and NOx. ROG and NOx are known as ozone precursors.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                DC&E
                                                              23                                                              February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      Discussion of Question (e):
      The buildings on site are used for religious and community purposes. There are no uses that would generate
      objectionable odors currently on site, or as a result of the proposed project. Therefore, there is no impact.


h) Result in potential to expose persons to substantial levels of
Toxic Air Contaminants (TAC), such that the probability of
contracting cancer for the Maximally Exposed Individual
(MEI) exceeds 10 in one million?

i) Result in ground level concentrations of non-carcinogenic
TACs such that the Hazard Index would be greater than 1 for
the MEI?

j) Result in a substantial increase in diesel emissions?

      Discussion of questions (h), (i) and (j):
      As a religious institution with no commercial space, the project would generate a limited number of truck
      trips, and would not be expected to result in a substantial increase in emissions of diesel particulate,
      identified by the California Air Resources Board as a toxic air contaminant. No other substantial emissions
      of air contaminants would result from the proposed project uses. In light of this conclusion, project
      operation impacts regarding toxic air contaminants and diesel emissions on air quality would be less than
      significant.

Sources:

Bay Area Air Quality Management District, Regulation 7 ­ Odorous Substances, March 1982.

City of Oakland, Oakland General Plan Land Use and Transportation (LUTE) Element, June 1998, as amended.

Bay Area Air Quality Management District, BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, Assessing the Air Quality Impacts of
   Projects and Plan, December 1999.

Bay Area Air Quality Management District, Air Quality Standards and Attainment, July 2005.

Bay Area Air Quality Management District, Bay Area 2005 Ozone Strategy, January 4, 2006.

Dowling Associates, Inc., Traffic Study ­ Renovation at St. John's Episcopal Church, Oakland, April 9, 2007.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                           DC&E
                                                      24                                                 February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
IV. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES - - Would the project:

a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or through
habitat modifications, on any species identified as a candidate,
sensitive, or special status species in local or regional plans,
policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of
Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?

      Discussion of question (a):
      A site inspection determined that suitable habitat for special-status plant or animal species is generally
      absent from the project site. The extent of past disturbance precludes the occurrence of any special-status
      plant species on the site. Similarly, the potential for the occurrence of special-status animal species is
      considered unlikely or remote. This includes the potential for the occurrence of the federally-threatened
      California red legged frog (Rana aurora draytonii). There is, however, a remote possibility that individual
      frogs could move along the creek corridor and enter the site, and could be injured or destroyed during
      construction. For this reason, the project could have a potentially significant impact on special-status
      species; therefore, impacts associated with such special status species will be evaluated in greater detail in
      the EIR.

b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or
other sensitive natural community identified in local or
regional plans, policies, regulations, or by the California
Department of Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service?

      Discussion of question (b):
      As determined during the site inspection, the project site does not support any riparian habitat or other
      sensitive natural community types identified in local or regional plans, policies, regulations or by the
      California Department of Fish and Game. Most of the existing tree, shrub and groundcover along the creek
      and remainder of the site consists of non-native species. The mature native cottonwood located near the
      proposed footings of the new bridge does not constitute a sensitive natural community type. Thus, no impact
      on sensitive natural communities would occur.

c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected
wetlands (as defined by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act)
or state protected wetlands, through direct removal, filling,
hydrological interruption, or other means?

      Discussion of question (c):
      Temescal Creek is a regulated waterbody, and any modifications to the bed or bank would be subject to
      authorization from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
      and California Department of Fish and Game. As determined during the site inspection, wetlands are absent
      along the creek channel, but the active channel is a regulated "other waters of the U.S." Construction in or
      near the active creek channel would alter existing conditions, and must be carefully controlled to ensure that
      no degradation of downstream waters occurs as a result of construction. The proposed restoration and bridge
      improvements would be subject to review and approval by the regulatory agencies. For this reason, the
      project could have a potentially significant impact on jurisdictional waters, and this issue will be evaluated in
      greater detail in the EIR.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                       25                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any native
resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with
established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or
impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites?

      Discussion of question (d):
      Although existing habitat values on the site are relatively low due to the dominance by non-native species, the
      Temescal Creek channel does serve as a movement corridor for wildlife. The impact associated with the
      movement of any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with established native resident or
      migratory wildlife corridors, or with the use of native wildlife nursery sites will be further studied in the EIR.

e) Fundamentally conflict with any applicable habitat
conservation plan or natural community conservation plan?

      Discussion of question (e):
      The proposed project would not conflict with any applicable habitat conservation plan or natural community
      conservation plan. No adopted conservation plans encompass the site or vicinity, so no impact would occur.

f) Fundamentally conflict with the City of Oakland Tree
Preservation and Removal Ordinance (Oakland Municipal
Code (OMC) Chapter 12.36) by removal of protected trees
under certain circumstances? Factors to be considered in
determining significance include: The number, type, size,
location and condition of (a) the protected trees to be removed
and/or impacted by construction and (b) the protected trees to
remain, with special consideration given to native trees.

Protected trees include the following: Quercus agrifolia
(California or coast live oak) measuring four inches diameter
at breast height (dbh) or larger, and any other tree measuring
nine inches dbh or larger except eucalyptus and pinus radiata
(Monterey pine); provided, however, that Monterey pine trees
on City property and in development-related situations where
more than five Monterey pine trees per acre are proposed to be
removed are considered to be Protected trees.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                              DC&E
                                                       26                                                   February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards

g) Fundamentally conflict with the City of Oakland Creek
Protection Ordinance (OMC Chapter 13.16) intended to
protect biological resources. Although there are no specific,
numeric/quantitative criteria to assess impacts, factors to be
considered in determining significance include whether there is
substantial degradation of riparian and aquatic habitat through:
(a) discharging a substantial amount of pollutants into a creek;
(b) significantly modifying the natural flow of the water; (c)
depositing substantial amounts of new material into a creek or
causing substantial bank erosion or instability; or (d) adversely
impacting the riparian corridor by significantly altering
vegetation or wildlife habitat?

      Discussion of questions (f) and (g):
      The proposed project includes an application for a tree removal permit as required under the City of
      Oakland Tree Preservation and Removal Ordinance. As indicated in the project description, an estimated
      44 protected trees would be removed as part of the project. This has therefore been identified as a
      potentially significant impact, and this issue will be evaluated in greater detail in the EIR.

      Although the project is significantly modifying the natural water flow in the creek, the proposed
      modifications include the replacement of removed trees with native plant species, restoration of natural
      habitat and bank stabilization, all of which will significantly improve the creek corridor and natural creek
      flow. While the overall design and intent is to improve the existing habitat values of the creek corridor on
      the site, substantial modifications to the existing degraded condition of the creek would occur as part of the
      project and this issue will be evaluated in greater detail in the EIR.
                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
V. CULTURAL RESOURCES -- Would the project?

a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of a
historical resource as defined in CEQA Guidelines 15064.5.
Specifically, a substantial adverse change includes physical
demolition, destruction, relocation, or alteration of the resource
or its immediate surroundings such that the significance of the
historical resource would be "materially impaired." The
significance of an historical resource is "materially impaired"
when a project demolishes or materially alters, in an adverse
manner, those physical characteristics of the resource that
convey its historical significance and that justify its inclusion
on, or eligibility for inclusion on an historical resource list
(including the California Register of Historical Resources, the
National Register of Historical Resources, Local Register, or
historical resources survey form (DPR Form 523) with a rating
of 1-5)?


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                       27                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




      Discussion of question (a):
      According to the City's Parcel Historic Data, there are no historic resources as defined by CEQA
      Guidelines 15064.5 on the project site, including the single-family home (5928 Thornhill Drive).
      Therefore, the project would have no impact on their significance as an historical resource nor would the
      project materially alter any of their physical characteristics as to impact their eligibility or justification for
      potential inclusion on an historical resource list.

b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an
archaeological resource pursuant to 15064.5?

      Discussion of question (b):
      The project site is located within a developed area that has been previously disturbed through construction.
      However, there remains the potential for unidentified buried archaeological remains to be present at the site.
      Buried archaeological remains such as prehistoric middden deposits, flaked and ground stone artifacts,
      bone, shell, building foundations and walls, and other buried cultural resource materials could be damaged
      during excavation and other construction activities. Therefore, the potential exists for disturbance of
      archaeological resources (as identified in CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.4 or CEQA Section 21803(g)),
      which could cause substantial adverse change to the significance of such resources, thereby resulting in a
      significant impact. Accordingly, the project would be required to implement and comply with the following
      uniformly-applied standard condition of approval, and implementation of this standard condition would
      reduce the impact from potential discovery of subsurface cultural resources to less than significant.

            STANDARD CONDITION CUL-1 (Archaeological Resources):
            On-going throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction

      a) Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15064.5 (f), "provisions for historical or unique
         archaeological resources accidentally discovered during construction" should be instituted.
         Therefore, in the event that any prehistoric or historic subsurface cultural resources are
         discovered during ground disturbing activities, all work within 50 feet of the resources shall be
         halted and the project applicant and/or lead agency shall consult with a qualified archaeologist or
         paleontologist to assess the significance of the find. If any find is determined to be significant,
         representatives of the project proponent and/or lead agency and the qualified archaeologist would
         meet to determine the appropriate avoidance measures or other appropriate measure, with the
         ultimate determination to be made by the City of Oakland. All significant cultural materials
         recovered shall be subject to scientific analysis, professional museum curation, and a report
         prepared by the qualified archaeologist according to current professional standards.

      b) In considering any suggested measure proposed by the consulting archaeologist in order to
         mitigate impacts to historical resources or unique archaeological resources, the project applicant
         shall determine whether avoidance is necessary and feasible in light of factors such as the nature
         of the find, project design, costs, and other considerations. If avoidance is unnecessary or
         infeasible, other appropriate measures (e.g., data recovery) shall be instituted. Work may proceed
         on other parts of the project site while measure for historical resources or unique archaeological
         resources is carried out.

      c) Should an archaeological artifact or feature be discovered on-site during project construction, all
         activities within a 50-foot radius of the find would be halted until the findings can be fully
         investigated by a qualified archaeologist to evaluate the find and assess the significance of the find
         according to the CEQA definition of a historical or unique archaeological resource. If the deposit
         is determined to be significant, the project applicant and the qualified archaeologist shall meet to
         determine the appropriate avoidance measures or other appropriate measure, subject to approval
         by the City of Oakland, which shall assure implementation of appropriate measure measures


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                  DC&E
                                                         28                                                     February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



            recommended by the archaeologist. Should archaeologically-significant materials be recovered,
            the qualified archaeologist shall recommend appropriate analysis and treatment, and shall
            prepare a report on the findings for submittal to the Northwest Information Center.



                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological
resource or site or unique geologic feature?

      Discussion of question (c):
      Paleontologic resources are the fossilized evidence of past life found in the geologic record. Despite the
      tremendous volume of sedimentary rock deposits preserved worldwide, and the enormous number of
      organisms that have lived through time, preservation of plant or animal remains is an extremely rare
      occurrence. Because of the infrequency of fossil preservation, fossils ­ particularly vertebrate fossils ­ are
      considered to be nonrenewable resources. Because of their rarity, and the scientific information they can
      provide, fossils are highly significant records of ancient life.

      Given the relatively shallow grading activity associated with the parking lot, it is unlikely that fossils would
      be unearthed, however because significant fossil discoveries can be made even in areas of low sensitivity
      the potential for a significant effect remains. Accordingly, the project would be required to implement and
      comply with the following uniformly-applied standard condition of approval, and implementation of this
      standard condition would reduce the impact from potential discovery of paleontological resources to less
      than significant.

            STANDARD CONDITION CUL-2: In the event of an unanticipated discovery of a
            paleontological resource during construction, excavations within 50 feet of the find shall be
            temporarily halted or diverted until the discovery is examined by a qualified paleontologist (per
            Society of Vertebrate Paleontology standards (SVP 1995,1996)). The qualified paleontologist
            shall document the discovery as needed, evaluate the potential resource, and assess the
            significance of the find under the criteria set forth in Section 15064.5 of the CEQA Guidelines.
            The paleontologist shall notify the appropriate agencies to determine procedures that would be
            followed before construction is allowed to resume at the location of the find. If the City
            determines that avoidance is not feasible, the paleontologist shall prepare an excavation plan for
            mitigating the effect of the project on the qualities that make the resource important, and such
            plan shall be implemented. The plan shall be submitted to the City for review and approval.


                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


d) Disturb any human remains, including those interred outside
of formal cemeteries?

      Discussion of question (d):
      While it is unlikely that human remains would be encountered during project construction, the potential
      exists. In the event of the accidental discovery of any human remains, including those interred outside of


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                       29                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      formal cemeteries, during project construction, the project would be required to implement and comply with
      the following uniformly-applied standard condition of approval, and implementation of this standard
      condition would reduce the impact from accidental discovery of human remains to less than significant.

            STANDARD CONDITION CUL-3: In the event that human skeletal remains are uncovered at
            the project site during construction or ground-breaking activities, all work shall immediately halt
            and the Alameda County Coroner shall be contacted to evaluate the remains, and following the
            procedures and protocols pursuant to Section 15064.5 (e)(1) of the CEQA Guidelines. If the
            County Coroner determines that the remains are Native American, the City shall contact the
            California Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC), pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section
            7050.5 of the Health and Safety Code, and all excavation and site preparation activities shall cease
            within a 50-foot radius of the find until appropriate arrangements are made. If the agencies
            determine that avoidance is not feasible, then an alternative plan shall be prepared with specific
            steps and timeframe required to resume construction activities. Monitoring, data recovery,
            determination of significance and avoidance measures (if applicable) shall be completed
            expeditiously.


                                                                                          Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                          Significant                           Significant
                                                                             Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                             Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                               Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
VI. GEOLOGY AND SOILS -- Would the project:

a) Expose people or structures to substantial risk of loss, injury, or death
involving:

         i) Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as delineated on
         the most recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning
         Map or Seismic Hazards Map issued by the State
         Geologist for the area or based on other substantial
         evidence of a known fault (refer to Division of Mines
         and Geology Special Publications 42 and 117 and PRC
         2690 et. Seq.)?

         ii) Strong seismic ground shaking?

         iii) Seismic-related ground failure, including
         liquefaction, lateral spreading, subsidence, collapse?


      Discussion of questions (a.i, a.ii, a.iii, and iv)
      The major active faults in the project area include the Hayward, Calaveras and San Andreas. For each of  56
      the active faults within 50 kilometers (km) of the site, the distance from the site and estimated maximum
      Moment magnitude events are summarized in Table 1.

      Table 1 Active Faults Within 50KM of Project Site


            5
        Moment magnitude is an energy ­based scale and provides a physically meaningful measure of eh size of a faulting event.
Moment magnitude is directly related to average and fault rupture area.
            6
          California Division of Mines and Geology, 1996, probabilistic Seismic Hazard Assessment for the State of California, CDMG
Open-File Report 96-08.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                            DC&E
                                                            30                                                            February 13, 2008
                                                                                         Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                   Approximate
                                                   Distance from
                                                         Site                 Direction                    Maximum
        Fault Segment                                   (km)                  from Site                    Magnitude
        Northern Hayward                                 0.7                  Southwest                       6.6
        Hayward-Total                                    0.7                  Southwest                       7.1
        Southern Hayward                                   6                  Southeast                       6.9
        Mount Diablo Thrust                               15                     East                         6.7
        Northern Calaveras                                16                     East                         7.0
        Concord                                           21                  Northeast                       6.5
        Southern Green Valley                             27                    North                         6.5
        Northern Greenville                               28                  Northeast                       6.6
        Rodgers Creek                                     30                    North                         7.1
        San Andreas ­ 1906 Rupture                        31                  Southwest                       7.9
        San Andreas ­ Peninsula                           31                  Southwest                       7.2
        San Andreas ­ North Coast South                   34                    West                          7.5

      In 2002, the Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities at the U.S. Geologic Survey predicted a
      62 percent probability
                     7
                             of a magnitude 6.7 or greater earthquake occurring in the San Francisco Bay Area by
      the year 2030.

      The liquefaction potential of soil layers on the project site (with the exception of the creek bed) are
      sufficiently dense or contain fine content such that they are not susceptible to liquefaction. As a result, the
      potential for lateral spreading and for sand boils and lurch cracking at the ground surface is nil. Soils within
      the creek bed are susceptible to strength loss during seismic shaking.

      In accordance with standard City practices, complying with the California Building Code (CBC) standards,
      and incorporating a foundation design intended to minimize effects of ground shaking and seismically
      related ground failures, the applicant shall be required to submit and engineering analysis along with
      detailed engineering drawings to the Oakland Building Services Division prior to excavation, grading, or
      construction activities on the site. This is consistent with standard City of Oakland practices to ensure that
      all buildings are designed and built in conformance with the seismic requirements of the City of Oakland
      Building Code. The project sponsor will be required to submit an engineering analysis report along with
      detailed engineering drawings and relevant grading construction activities on the project site to address
      constraints and incorporate recommendations identified in the geotechnical investigations. In addition, the
      required submittals would ensure that the buildings are designed and constructed in conformance with the
      requirements of all applicable building code regulations, pursuant to standard City procedures. Considering
      that the proposed project would be constructed in conformance with the CBC and the City of Oakland
      Building Code, the risks of injury and structural damage from a known earthquake fault, ground shaking, or
      seismic-related ground failure would be reduced and the impacts would be less than significant. These
      requirements are imbedded in the following uniformly-applied standard condition of approval that would
      apply to the project.

            STANDARD CONDITION GEO-1: A site-specific, design level, Landslide or Liquefaction
            geotechnical investigation for each construction site within the project area shall be required as
            part if this project and submitted for review and approval by the Building Services Division.
            Specifically:

            7
           Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities (WGCEP), 2002, Earthquake Probabilities in the San Francisco Bay
region; 2000 to 2032 ­ A Summary of Findings, Open File Report 99-517.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                           DC&E
                                                           31                                                            February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



               a) Each investigation shall include an analysis of expected ground motions at the site from
                  identified faults. The analyses shall be accordance with applicable City ordinances and
                  polices, and consistent with the most recent version of the California Building Code, which
                  requires structural design that can accommodate ground accelerations expected from
                  identified faults.

               b) The investigations shall determine final design parameters for the walls, foundations,
                  foundation slabs, surrounding related improvements, and infrastructure (utilities,
                  roadways, parking lots, and sidewalks).

               c) The investigations shall be reviewed and approved by a registered geotechnical engineer.
                  All recommendations by the project engineer, geotechnical engineer, shall be included in the
                  final design, as approved by the City of Oakland.

               d) The geotechnical report shall include a map prepared by a land surveyor or civil engineer
                  that shows all field work and location of the "No Build" zone. The map shall include a
                  statement that the locations and limitations of the geologic features are accurate
                  representations of said features as they exist on the ground, were placed on this map by the
                  surveyor, the civil engineer or under their supervision, and are accurate to the best of their
                  knowledge.

               e) Recommendations that are applicable to foundation design, earthwork, and site
                  preparation that were prepared prior to or during the projects design phase, shall be
                  incorporated in the project.

               f) Final seismic considerations for the site shall be submitted to and approved by the City of
                  Oakland Building Services Division prior to commencement of the project.

               g) A peer review is required for the Geotechnical Report. Personnel reviewing the geologic
                  report shall approve the report, reject it, or withhold approval pending the submission by
                  the applicant or subdivider of further geologic and engineering studies to more adequately
                  define active fault traces.

               h) Tentative Tract or Parcel Map approvals shall require, but not be limited to approval of the
                  Geotechnical Report.
                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


         iv) Landslides?

      Discussion of question (a.iv):
      Landsliding, liquefaction ground failures including lateral spreading (a.i through a.iii), soil subsidence, and
      soil collapse have been determined to be less than significant because the project design would do the
      following: incorporate foundation recommendations of a project geotechnical evaluation, comply with
      applicable City regulations and standard conditions of approval, be constructed to applicable CBC
      standards, and would incorporate the proposed measures to address potential liquefaction hazards. Thus,
      the potential impacts associated with landslides, would be less than significant.

b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil,
creating substantial risks to life, property, or creek/waterways?


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                     DC&E
                                                       32                                                          February 13, 2008
                                                                                            Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




       Discussion of question (b):
       The creek and proposed bridge area is subject to some existing soil erosion because of the silty clay, sand and
                                                      8
       gravel layers on the south side of the creek. These sandy soils are susceptible to erosion during seismic
       shaking. Existing erosion has resulted in a steep creek bank slope near the proposed west bridge abutment.
       The project proposes creek restoration activity, as described in the project description, which includes moving
       and regrading the slopes of the creek banks, leading to bank stabilization and habitat improvement. Creek
       bank instability would also be addressed in the design of the bridge and abutment walls. The bridge would
       have drilled pier foundations with vertical and lateral support from under potentially unstable soils. Abutment
                                                                                                           9
       walls would be extended below an imaginary line inclined at 2.5 to 1 upwards from the creek bed.

       Southwest of the proposed sanctuary building is a hillside located at the edge of a regional landslide
       deposit. The hillside is subject to localized slope failures and ongoing downslope creep. However, based
       on a test boring on the hillside, the landsliding seems limited to approximately the upper ten feet of soil
       and rock. Installation of a site retaining wall would mitigate the risk of shallow landslide
                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                    movements, and
       the additional subsurface drainage and support proposed would increase slope stability.

       Also, to minimize wind or water erosion on the site during construction or remediation activities that
       involve earthwork, the applicant shall be required, in accordance with standard City practices, to submit a
       construction period erosion control plan to the Building Services Division for approval prior to the
       issuance of grading and building permits, consistent with standard City practices. The plan shall be in
       effect for a period of time sufficient to stabilize the construction site throughout all phases of the project.
       Long-term erosion potential shall be addressed through installation of project landscaping and storm
       drainage facilities, both of which shall be designed to meet applicable regulations. Therefore, there would
       be a less-than-significant impact associated with soil erosion and/or loss of topsoil.

c) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table 18-1-B of
the Uniform Building Code (1994, as it may be revised),
creating substantial risks to life or property?

       Discussion of question (c):
       As noted above under criteria a.i through a.iii, a geotechnical investigation, as required by the City, would
       evaluate the subsurface soils and determine
                                             11
                                                     the appropriate foundation system to mitigate unstable soils as
       is standard practice for the industry. In accordance with standard City practices, and in conformance with
       current codes and regulations, the project sponsor shall be required to submit detailed engineering drawings
       and materials to the Building Services Division prior to excavation, grading, or construction on the site.
       This measure would ensure that the building is designed and built in conformance with the requirements of
       the City of Oakland Building Code and the applicable provisions of the CBC. Therefore, the proposed
       project would not result in substantial risks to life or property due to unstable or expansive soil, and
       application of Standard Condition GEO-1 will reduce the potential impacts associated with these conditions
       to less than significant.




8
    Geotechnical Investigation, St John's Episcopal Church, Entry Road, Bridge, Parking and New Sanctuary, Land/Marine Geotechnics,
     May 2005.
9
    Geotechnical Investigation, May 2005.
10
     Geotechnical Investigation, May 2005.
11
     Geotechnical Investigation, May 2005.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                              DC&E
                                                              33                                                            February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                  Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                  Significant                           Significant
                                                                     Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                     Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                       Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


d) Be located above a well, pit, swamp, mound, tank vault, or
unmarked sewer line, creating substantial risks to life or
property?

      Discussion of question (d):
      The project site is not located on a well, pit, swamp, mound, tank vault or unmarked sewer line.

e) Be located above landfills for which there is no approved
closure and post-closure plan, or unknown fill soils, creating
substantial risks to life or property?

      Discussion of question (e):
      The north side of the existing parking lot was constructed on about 5 feet of fill, consisting of medium stiff
      clay and contains abundant rock fragments. An additional four feet of fill was found near the center of the
      proposed sanctuary addition site. This fill consists of medium dense clayey sand and medium stiff to silty
      clay fill.

      As noted above under criteria a.i through a.iii, a geotechnical investigation, as required by the City, would
      evaluate the subsurface soils and determine the appropriate foundation system to mitigate unstable soils as
      is standard practice for the industry. In accordance with standard City practices, and in conformance with
      current codes and regulations, the project sponsor shall be required to submit detailed engineering drawings
      and materials to the Building Services Division prior to excavation, grading, or construction on the site.
      This measure would ensure that the building is designed and build in conformance with the requirements of
      the City of Oakland Building Code and the applicable provisions of the CBC. Therefore, the proposed
      project would not result in substantial risks to life or property due to construction on unstable fill, and
      application of Standard Condition GEO-1 will reduce the potential impacts associated with these conditions
      to less than significant.

f) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use of
septic tanks or alternative wastewater disposal systems where
sewers are not available for the disposal of wastewater?

      Discussion of questions (f):
      The church is currently connected and would continue to be connected to the existing central sewer system
      which provides wastewater collection service for the City of Oakland. Therefore, the project would not
      require any of the systems described.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                    DC&E
                                                      34                                                          February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
VII. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - -
Would the project:

a) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment
through the routine transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
materials?

      Discussion of question (a):
      As a religious institution, the project would not involve the routine transport, use storage, or disposal of
      hazardous materials, other than routine use of minor quantities of commercial products used in cleaning and
      maintenance of the buildings and potentially, pesticides and fertilizers for care of on-site landscaping. Also,
      the project would not produce emissions other than from natural gas for space and water heating. These
      materials and emissions would not pose a significant hazard, due to routine activities, to the public,
      including students or personnel at the adjacent Thornhill Elementary School.

b) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment
through reasonably foreseeable upset and accident conditions
involving the release of hazardous materials into the
environment?

c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or acutely
hazardous materials, substances, or waste within one-quarter
mile of an existing or proposed school?

d) Be located on a site which is included on a list of hazardous
materials sites compiled pursuant to Government Code Section
65962.5 and as a result, would create a significant hazard to
the public or the environment?

      Discussion of questions (b), (c), and (d):
      The construction of the 5,000 square foot addition to the Church's sanctuary, and the reconfiguration of the
      site parking and circulation will not create a significant hazard to the public or environment as there is no
      activity on the project site that would generate hazardous materials. Although the project site is adjacent to
      Thornhill Elementary School, the project would not emit hazardous emissions, nor handle hazardous
      materials. Lastly, the site is not on any list of any hazardous materials sites.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                       35                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                              Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                              Significant                           Significant
                                                                                 Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                 Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                   Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


e) For a project located within an airport land use plan or,
where such a plan has not been adopted, within two miles of a
public airport or public use airport, and would result in a safety
hazard for people residing or working in the project area?

f) Be located within the vicinity of a private airstrip, and would
result in a safety hazard for people residing or working in the
project area?

      Discussion of (e) and (f):
      The project site is not located within an airport land use plan. The closest airport is Oakland International,
      which is approximately 15 miles from the site. There are no private air strips near the project site.

g) Impair implementation of or physically interfere with an
adopted emergency response plan or emergency evacuation
plan?


      Discussion of (g):
      Neither phase of the project would affect emergency response or an evacuation plan for the area. The
      improved site circulation and access would improve emergency egress from the church campus and would
      provide better emergency vehicle access to the project site.
h) Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss,
injury, or death involving wildland fires, including where
wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas or where residences
are intermixed with wildlands?

      Discussion of (h):                                                                   12
      The project is located within the City of Oakland Wildfire Fire Assessment District. The new sanctuary
      addition would be required to comply with all applicable Fire Code and fire suppression systems, as
      routinely required by the City. Given the location of the site in the Wildfire Assessment District, the project
      would be required to implement and comply with the following uniformly-applied standard condition of
      approval and implementing recommendations (which are consistent with and include elements from the
      City' uniformly-applied standard conditions) that would reduce the potential adverse impacts of exposing
      people to wildfires, to less than significant.

            STANDARD CONDITION HAZ-1: Vegetation Management Plan on Creekside Properties
            Prior to issuance of a demolition, grading, and/or construction and Ongoing

                 a) The project applicant shall submit a vegetation management plan for review and approval by
                    the Planning and Zoning Division, Fire Services Division, and Environmental Services
                    Division of the Public Works Agency that includes, if deemed appropriate, the following
                    measures:



            12
                 http://www.oaklandnet.com/wildfirePrevention/WildfirePreventionAssessmentDistrictMap.pdf accessed on 12/26/07.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                DC&E
                                                                36                                                            February 13, 2008
                                                                                              Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                           i.     Identify and leave" islands" of vegetation in order to prevent erosion and landslides and
                                  protect nesting habitat.
                           ii.    Leave at least 6 inches of vegetation on the site.
                           iii.   Trim tree branches from the ground up (limbing up) and leave tree canopy intact.
                           iv.    Leave stumps and roots from cut down trees to prevent erosion.
                           v.     Plant fire-appropriate, drought-tolerant, preferably native vegetation.
                           vi.    Err on the side of caution. If you don't know if a plant, tree or area is sensitive, ask for a
                                  second opinion before you cut.
                           vii.   Provide erosion and sediment control protection if cutting vegetation on a steep slope.

                     IX. Leave tall shrubbery at least 3-feet high.

                     X. Fence off sensitive plant habitats and creek areas to protect from goat grazing.

                     XI. Obtain a tree protection permit for a protected tree (includes all mature trees except
                     eucalyptus and Monterey pine).

                     XII. Contact the City Tree Department (615-5850) for dead trees.

                     XIII. Do not clear-cut vegetation. This can lead to erosion and severe water quality problems
                     and destroy important habitat.

                     XIV. Do not trim/prune branches that are larger than 4 inches in diameter.

                     XV. Do not dump cut vegetation in a creek.

                     XVI. Do not cut tall shrubbery to less than 3-feet high.

                     XVII. Do not cut off short vegetation (grasses, ground-cover) to less than 6-inches high.

            STANDARD CONDITION HAZ-2: Fire Safety
            Prior to and ongoing throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction
            The project applicant and construction contractor will ensure that during project construction, all
            construction vehicles and equipment will be fitted with spark arrestors to minimize accidental
            ignition of dry construction debris and surrounding dry vegetation.


                                                                                             Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                             Significant                           Significant
                                                                                Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                  Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
VIII. HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY - - Would the
project:

a) Violate any water quality standards or waste discharge
requirements?

b) Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere
substantially with groundwater recharge such that there would
be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a lowering of the local


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                DC&E
                                                                 37                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



groundwater table level (e.g., the production rate of pre-
existing nearby wells would drop to a level which would not
support existing land uses or planned uses for which permits
have been granted)?

      Discussion of (a) and (b):
         Hazardous materials associated with construction activities are likely to involve minor quantities of paint,
      solvents, oil and grease and petroleum hydrocarbons. Storage and use of hazardous materials at the project
      site during construction activities would comply with best management practices (BMPs) as required by the
      City of Oakland and Alameda County stormwater quality protection requirements, which would reduce
      potential impacts to groundwater quality associated with spills or leaks of hazardous materials used
      routinely during construction activities to a less-than-significant level.

      In accordance with standard City practices, the project sponsor shall be required to comply with all
      applicable regulatory standards and regulations pertaining to potential contaminants and to project-related
      grading and excavation prior to issuance of grading and building permits (see Section VI, Geology and
      Soils). Therefore, the project would not result in significant impacts on water quality or on groundwater
      supplies.

c) Result in substantial erosion or siltation on- or off-site that
would affect the quality of receiving waters?

d) Result in substantial flooding on- or off-site?

e) Create or contribute substantial runoff which would exceed
the capacity of existing or planned stormwater drainage
systems?

f) Create or contribute substantial runoff which would be an
additional source of polluted runoff?

g) Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?

      Discussion of (c) through (g):
      Under current conditions, approximately 33 percent of the 136,300 square foot (3.13-acre) site is covered
      by the existing structures and paving. With removal of the existing house, and construction of the
      Sanctuary addition, the total impervious area would increase from 44,745 square feet to 51,640 square feet,
      which represents an increase of 13 percent of impervious surface. Because the site is currently developed
      primarily with impervious surfaces, the proposed project would not significantly alter the pattern or volume
      of surface runoff, compared to existing conditions. Also, stormwater discharges from the site are not
      expected to significantly increase or result in substantial erosion or flooding onsite or offsite, since as noted,
      the project would not significantly increase the amount of impervious surface onsite. The project is not
      located in a 100-year floodplain zone, according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
      and is therefore subject to an annual flooding probability of less than one percent. Furthermore, the parking
      area will incorporate a new stormwater drainage system, which will retain stormwater on site, further
      reducing runoff volume generated on the project site, and allowing percolation into the ground as opposed
      to flowing into Temescal Creek.

      In accordance with standard City practices, and in order to minimize any short-term (construction-related)
      or long-term impacts on surface water quantity or quality, the applicant shall be required to comply with
      applicable City standards and regulations designed to maintain water quality. The project would be



St. Johns Church Project                                                                                               DC&E
                                                        38                                                   February 13, 2008
                                                                                Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      required to implement the following uniformly-applied standard conditions of approval which the City
      would apply to the project and that would reduce impacts regarding water quality to less than significant:

            STANDARD CONDITION HYD-1: Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
            Prior to and ongoing throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction activities
            The project applicant must obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity Storm Water
            Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources Control Board
            (SWRCB). The project applicant must file a notice of intent (NOI) with the SWRCB. The project
            applicant will be required to prepare a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and submit
            the plan for review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Division and the Building Services
            Division. At a minimum, the SWPPP shall include a description of construction materials,
            practices, and equipment storage and maintenance; a list of pollutants likely to contact stormwater;
            site-specific erosion and sedimentation control practices; a list of provisions to eliminate or reduce
            discharge of materials to stormwater; Best Management Practices (BMPs), and an inspection and
            monitoring program. Prior to the issuance of any construction-related permits, the project
            applicant shall submit a copy of the SWPPP and evidence of approval of the SWPPP by the
            SWRCB to the Building Services Division. Implementation of the SWPPP shall start with the
            commencement of construction and continue though the completion of the project. After
            construction is completed, the project applicant shall submit a notice of termination to the SWRCB.

            STANDARD CONDITION HYD-2: Drainage Plan for Projects on Slopes Greater than 20%
            Prior to issuance of building permit (or other construction-related permit)
            The project drawings submitted for a building permit (or other construction-related permit) shall
            contain a drainage plan to be reviewed and approved by the Building Services Division. The
            drainage plan shall include measures to reduce the post-construction volume and velocity of
            stormwater runoff to the maximum extent practicable. Stormwater runoff shall not be
            augmented to adjacent properties or creeks. The drainage plan shall include and identify the
            following:

               i. All proposed impervious surface on the site;
               ii. Anticipated directional flows of on-site stormwater runoff;
               iii. Site design measures to reduce the amount of impervious surface area and directly
                    connected impervious surfaces;
               iv. Source control measures to limit the potential for stormwater pollution; and
               v. Stormwater treatment measures to remove pollutants from stormwater runoff.

            STANDARD CONDITION HYD-3: Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution Management Plan
            http://www.cleanwaterprogram.com
            Prior to issuance of building permit (or other construction-related permit)
            The applicant shall comply with the requirements of Provision C.3 of the National Pollutant
            Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to the Alameda Countywide Clean Water
            Program. The applicant shall submit with the application for a building permit (or other
            construction-related permit) a completed Stormwater Supplemental Form for the Building
            Services Division. The project drawings submitted for the building permit (or other construction-
            related permit) shall contain a stormwater pollution management plan, for review and approval
            by the City, to limit the discharge of pollutants in stormwater after construction of the project to
            the maximum extent practicable.

               a) The post-construction stormwater pollution management plan shall include and identify the
               following:
                 i. All proposed impervious surface on the site;
                 ii. Anticipated directional flows of on-site stormwater runoff; and


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                  DC&E
                                                      39                                                        February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                  iii. Site design measures to reduce the amount of impervious surface area and directly
                       connected impervious surfaces; and
                  iv. Source control measures to limit the potential for stormwater pollution; and
                  v. Stormwater treatment measures to remove pollutants from stormwater runoff.

               b) The following additional information shall be submitted with the post-construction
               stormwater pollution management plan:
                 i. Detailed hydraulic sizing calculations for each stormwater treatment measure proposed;
                     and
                 ii. Pollutant removal information demonstrating that any proposed manufactured/
                     mechanical (i.e., non-landscape-based) stormwater treatment measure, when not used in
                     combination with a landscape-based treatment measure, is capable or removing the range
                     of pollutants typically removed by landscape-based treatment measures.

            All proposed stormwater treatment measures shall incorporate appropriate planting materials
            for stormwater treatment (for landscape-based treatment measures) and shall be designed with
            considerations for vector/mosquito control. Proposed planting materials for all proposed
            landscape-based stormwater treatment measures shall be included on the landscape and
            irrigation plan for the project. The applicant is not required to include on-site stormwater
            treatment measures in the post-construction stormwater pollution management plan if he or she
            secures approval from Planning and Zoning of a proposal that demonstrates compliance with the
            requirements of the City's Alternative Compliance Program.

            Prior to final permit inspection
            The applicant shall implement the approved stormwater pollution management plan.

            STANDARD CONDITION HYD-4: Maintenance Agreement for Stormwater Treatment
            Measures
            Prior to final zoning inspection
            For projects incorporating stormwater treatment measures, the applicant shall enter into the
            "Standard City of Oakland Stormwater Treatment Measures Maintenance Agreement," in
            accordance with Provision C.3.e of the NPDES permit, which provides, in part, for the following:
              i. The applicant accepting responsibility for the adequate installation/construction, operation,
              maintenance, inspection, and reporting of any on-site stormwater treatment measures being
              incorporated into the project until the responsibility is legally transferred to another entity; and
              ii. Legal access to the on-site stormwater treatment measures for representatives of the City, the
              local vector control district, and staff of the Regional Water Quality Control Board, San
              Francisco Region, for the purpose of verifying the implementation, operation, and maintenance
              of the on-site stormwater treatment measures and to take corrective action if necessary. The
              agreement shall be recorded at the County Recorder's Office at the applicant's expense.

               STANDARD CONDITION HYD-5: Erosion, Sedimentation, and Debris Control Measures
               Prior to issuance of demolition, grading, or construction-related permit
               The project applicant shall submit an erosion and sedimentation control plan for review and
               approval by the Building Services Division. All work shall incorporate all applicable "Best
               Management Practices (BMPs) for the construction industry, and as outlined in the Alameda
               Countywide Clean Water Program pamphlets, including BMP's for dust, erosion and
               sedimentation abatement per Chapter Section 15.04 of the Oakland Municipal Code. The
               measures shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

                  a) On sloped properties, the downhill end of the construction area must be protected with
                     silt fencing (such as sandbags, filter fabric, silt curtains, etc.) and hay bales oriented
                     parallel to the contours of the slope (at a constant elevation) to prevent erosion into the
                     creek.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                            DC&E
                                                        40                                                February 13, 2008
                                                                                      Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




                  b) In accordance with an approved erosion control plan, the project applicant shall
                     implement mechanical and vegetative measures to reduce erosion and sedimentation,
                     including appropriate seasonal maintenance. One hundred (100) percent degradable
                     erosion control fabric shall be installed on all graded slopes to protect and stabilize the
                     slopes during construction and before permanent vegetation gets established. All graded
                     areas shall be temporarily protected from erosion by seeding with fast growing annual
                     species. All bare slopes must be covered with staked tarps when rain is occurring or is
                     expected.

                  c) Minimize the removal of natural vegetation or ground cover from the site in order to
                     minimize the potential for erosion and sedimentation problems. Maximize the replanting
                     of the area with native vegetation as soon as possible.

                  d) All work in or near creek channels must be performed with hand tools and by a minimum
                     number of people. Immediately upon completion of this work, soil must be repacked and
                     native vegetation planted.

                  e) Install filter materials (such as sandbags, filter fabric, etc.) at the storm drain inlets
                     nearest to the creek side of the project site prior to the start of the wet weather season
                     (October 15); site dewatering activities; street washing activities; saw cutting asphalt or
                     concrete; and in order to retain any debris flowing into the City storm drain system.
                     Filter materials shall be maintained and/or replaced as necessary to ensure effectiveness
                     and prevent street flooding.

                  f) Ensure that concrete/granite supply trucks or concrete/plaster finishing operations do not
                     discharge wash water into the creek, street gutters, or storm drains.

                  g) Direct and locate tool and equipment cleaning so that wash water does not discharge into
                     the creek.

                  h) Create a contained and covered area on the site for storage of bags of cement, paints,
                     flammables, oils, fertilizers, pesticides, or any other materials used on the project site that
                     have the potential for being discharged to the storm drain system by the wind or in the
                     event of a material spill. No hazardous waste material shall be stored on site.

                  i)       Gather all construction debris on a regular basis and place them in a dumpster or other
                           container which is emptied or removed on a weekly basis. When appropriate, use tarps on
                           the ground to collect fallen debris or splatters that could contribute to stormwater
                           pollution.

                  j) Remove all dirt, gravel, refuse, and green waste from the sidewalk, street pavement, and
                     storm drain system adjoining the project site. During wet weather, avoid driving vehicles
                     off paved areas and other outdoor work.
                  k) Broom sweep the street pavement adjoining the project site on a daily basis. Caked-on
                     mud or dirt shall be scraped from these areas before sweeping. At the end of each
                     workday, the entire site must be cleaned and secured against potential erosion, dumping,
                     or discharge to the creek.

                  l)       All erosion and sedimentation control measures implemented during construction
                           activities, as well as construction site and materials management shall be in strict
                           accordance with the control standards listed in the latest edition of the Erosion and
                           Sediment Control Field Manual published by the Regional Water Quality Board
                           (RWQB).

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                        DC&E
                                                             41                                                       February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




                   m) Temporary fencing is required for sites without existing fencing between the creek and
                      the construction site and shall be placed along the side adjacent to construction (or both
                      sides of the creek if applicable) at the maximum practical distance from the creek
                      centerline. This area shall not be disturbed during construction without prior approval of
                      Planning and Zoning.

                   n) All erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be monitored regularly by the
                      project applicant. The City may require erosion and sedimentation control measures to
                      be inspected by a qualified environmental consultant (paid for by the project applicant)
                      during or after rain events. If measures are insufficient to control sedimentation and
                      erosion then the project applicant shall develop and implement additional and more
                      effective measures immediately.


                                                                                             Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                             Significant                           Significant
                                                                                Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                  Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


h) Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area, as
mapped on a federal Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood
Insurance Rate Map or other flood hazard delineation map that
would impede or redirect flood flows?

      Discussion of question (h):
      The project does not involve construction of housing.

i) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area structures which
would impede or redirect flood flows?

j) Expose people or structures to a substantial risk of loss,
injury or death involving flooding?

      Discussion of questions (i) and (j):
      Current 100-year flood elevations are contained within the existing Temescal Creek channel. The simulated
      maximum 100-year flood water surface elevation at the bridge location is no higher than 598 feet in elevation
      under existing channel geometry. The proposed free-spanning bridge decking and roadway are designed for a
      600-foot13
                 elevation, and the bridge footings are located outside of and above the 100-year flood water
      surface. Therefore, as designed, the proposed bridge would be outside of the 100-year flood hazard area,
      and would not be exposed to substantial risk of loss, injury or death involving flooding. The impact is less
      than significant.




            13
                 Kamman Hydrology & Engineering, Inc., Bridge Design review: St. John's Episcopal Church, Oakland, CA. June 28, 2007.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                               DC&E
                                                                42                                                           February 13, 2008
                                                                                          Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                         Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                         Significant                           Significant
                                                                            Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                            Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                              Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards


k) Result in inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?

      Discussion of questions (k):
      The project site is not within proximity of large water bodies in which seiches or tsunamis could be generated.
      The Phase 2 sanctuary
                         14
                               site is located adjacent to a hillside which is located to the toe or a large regional
      landslide deposit. The proposed building could be exposed to mudflows from the hillside during periods of
      heavy rain. At the time that the Church decides to proceed with the Phase 2 sanctuary, detailed plans would
      be developed, including the design of a site retaining wall which would help stabilize the hill, and which
      would be designed with freeboard to provide an area to catch mud and debris in the event of an upslope
      mudflow. The freeboard would be designed so that it can be cleaned out if mudflow occurs. In addition, the
      condition of the trees on the hillside, which are leaning as a result of hillside movement, will be evaluated for
      stability and if found to be unstable, the hillside would be re-landscaped in order to stabilize the hill. By
      incorporating these design and evaluation steps, the risk of mudflow inundation is less than significant.

l) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or
area, including through the alteration of the course, or
increasing the rate or amount of flow, of a Creek, river or
stream in a manner that would result in substantial erosion,
siltation, or flooding, both on- or off-site?

      Discussion of question (l):
      Impacts associated with the existing drainage pattern, including alteration of the creek course or creek flow,
      will be further addressed in the EIR.

m) Fundamentally conflict with elements of the City of
Oakland Creek Protection (OMC Chapter 13.16) ordinance
intended to protect hydrologic resources. Although there are
no specific, numeric/quantitative criteria to assess impacts,
factors to be considered in determining significance include
whether there is substantial degradation of water quality
through (a) discharging a substantial amount of pollutants into
creek; (b) significantly modifying the natural flow of the water
or capacity; (c) depositing substantial amounts of new material
into a creek or causing substantial bank erosion or instability;
or (d) substantially endangering public or private property or
threatening public health or safety?

      Discussion of question (m):
      Impacts associated with protecting hydrologic resources through the City of Oakland Creek Protection
      ordinance will be further addressed in the EIR.




            14
           Land/Marine Geotechnics, Geotechnical Investigation, St. John's Episcopal Church, Entry Road, Bridge, Parking and New
    Sanctuary. May 2005.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                            DC&E
                                                            43                                                            February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                  Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                  Significant                           Significant
                                                                     Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                     Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                       Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
IX. LAND USE AND PLANNING ­ Would the project:

a) Physically divide an established community?

b) Result in a fundamental conflict between adjacent or nearby
land uses?

c) Fundamentally conflict with applicable land use plan,
policy, or regulation of an agency with jurisdiction over the
project (including, but not limited to, the general plan, specific
plan, local coastal program, or zoning ordinance) adopted for
the purpose of avoiding or mitigating an environmental effect
and actually result in a physical change in the environment?

Fundamentally conflict with any applicable habitat
conservation plan or natural community conservation plan?

      Discussion of questions (a), (b), (c), and (d):
      Neither phase of the proposed project would change the existing use of the site as a religious institution.
      The proposed project would not divide an established community; result in fundamental conflict between
      adjacent land uses, or conflict with relevant plans and policies, as the existing General Plan designation and
      Zone remain unchanged. There are no habitat or conservation plans within the project area. Therefore,
      there are no land use impacts associated with the project.


                                                                                  Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                  Significant                           Significant
                                                                     Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                     Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                       Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
X.     MINERAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:

a) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral
resource that would be of value to the region and the residents
of the state?

b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally important
mineral resource recovery site delineated on a local general
plan, specific plan, or other land use plan?

      Discussion of questions (a) and (b):
      The project site, located in a residential area, and is paved and developed with buildings. The project site
      has no known existing mineral resources. The project would not require quarrying, mining, dredging, or
      extraction of locally important mineral resources on site, nor would it deplete any nonrenewable natural
      resource. Therefore, the project would not impact any mineral resources.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                    DC&E
                                                       44                                                         February 13, 2008
                                                                                                Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                               Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                               Significant                           Significant
                                                                                  Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                                  Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                                    Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XI. NOISE -- Would the project result in:

a) Exposure of persons to or generate noise levels in excess of
standards established in the Oakland general plan or applicable
standards of other agencies (e.g., OSHA)?

b) Violate the City of Oakland Noise Ordinance (Oakland
Planning Code Section 17.120.050) regarding operational
noise?

f) Generate interior Ldn or CNEL greater than 45 dBA for
multi-family dwellings, hotels, motels, dormitories and long-
term care facilities (and may be extended by local legislative
action to include single family dwellings) per California Noise
Insulation Standards (CCR Part 2, Title 24):

g) Result in a 5dBA permanent increase in ambient noise
levels in the project vicinity above levels existing without the
project?

h) Conflicts with state land use compatibility guidelines for all
specified land uses for determination of acceptability of noise
(Source: State of California, Governor's Office of Planning
and Research, General Plan Guidelines, 2003)?


      Discussion of question (a), (b) and (f) through (h):

      Both phases of the project involve improvements to operational elements of the St. John's campus. Neither
      phase would result in exposing persons to, or generating noise levels over existing
                                                                                       15
                                                                                          conditions which are
      primarily associated with traffic on Thornhill Drive (which is below the 60 Ldn contour as shown on Figure
      2, Roadway Contour map in the City of Oakland Noise Element), Church services and associated activities,
      and use of the campus for Thornhill Elementary School drop-off and pick-up activities. The new parking area
      and driveway are 45 feet from the existing house at 5940 Thornhill Drive, and 15 feet from the house owned
      by the Church at 5914 Thornhill Drive. Given the slow speed of automobiles using the proposed Thornhill
      Drive access, the primary noise generation factor would be idling and accelerating engines from automobiles
      entering and leaving the site. Noise from ingress, parking and egress currently affects the same two dwellings
      from the existing parking lot, therefore the proposed changes from Phase 1 of the project would not be
      significant.


            15
              Sound pressure is measured in decibels (dB), with zero dB corresponding roughly to the threshold of human hearing, and 120
dB to 140 dB corresponding to the threshold of pain. Because sound pressure can vary by over one trillion times within the range of
human hearing, a logarithmic loudness scale is used to keep sound intensity numbers at a convenient and manageable level. Owing to the
vibration in sensitivity of the human ear to various frequencies, sound is "weighted" to emphasize frequencies to which the ear is more
sensitive, in a method known as A-weighting and expressed in units of A-weighted decibels (dBA). The Leq is the constant sound level,
which would contain the same acoustic energy as the varying sound level, during the same time period (i.e., the average noise exposure
level for the given time period). The day-night noise level (DNL) is an average 24-hour noise level that accounts for the greater sensitivity
of most people to nighttime noise by giving greater weight to nighttime noise.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                                  DC&E
                                                                45                                                              February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      Construction of the new sanctuary building under Phase 2 is projected to generate an additional 2 peak hour
      vehicle trips during the weekday and 22 vehicle trips on Sundays, which would be spread out over the three
      standard service times amounting to roughly 7 vehicles per service. Generally, traffic must double in volume
      to produce noticeable permanent increase in noise levels. The existing peak hour traffic on Sunday was
      observed to be 35 vehicles, therefore the additional traffic generated by Phase 2 would not generate a
      significant increase in noise levels. The new sanctuary building would also include a cupola with bell. The
      bell would not increase noise levels in the project area because it would replace the existing bell located in the
      existing sanctuary building.

      Due to the nature of both phases of the project, there are no increases in operational noise over existing
      conditions. Therefore, there would be no impact.
                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
c) Violate the City of Oakland Noise Ordinance (Oakland
Planning Section 17.120.050) regarding construction noise,
except if an acoustical analysis is preformed and all noise ­
related Standard Conditions of Approval imposed: During the
hours of 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. on weekdays and 8 p.m. to 9 a.m. on
weekends and federal holidays, will noise levels received by
any land use from construction or demolition exceed the
applicable nighttime operational noise level standard?


d) Violates the City of Oakland Noise Ordinance (Oakland
Municipal Code Section 8.18.020) regarding nuisance of
persistent construction-related noise?

      Discussion of question (c) and (d):
      Construction activities would intermittently and temporarily generate noise levels above existing ambient
      levels in the project vicinity. During the construction period, a wide variety of construction and demolition
      equipment would be used, and material would be transported to and from the site by truck. These activities
      would intermittently and temporarily increase ambient noise levels in the project vicinity over the duration of
      construction. Construction-related noise levels at and near locations on the project site would fluctuate
      depending on the particular type, number, and duration of use of various pieces of construction equipment.
      The effect of construction noise would depend upon the level of construction activity on a given day and the
      related noise generated by that activity, the distance between construction activities and the nearest noise-
      sensitive uses, and the existing noise levels at those uses. As would be required for all construction projects
      in Oakland, the project shall implement and comply with the following uniformly-applied standard conditions
      throughout the duration of construction activity:

         STANDARD CONDITION NOISE-1: Days/Hours of Construction Operation
         The project applicant shall require construction contractors to limit standard construction activities
         as follows:

            a) Construction activities are limited to between 7:00 AM and 7:00 PM Monday through Friday,
               except that pile driving and/or other extreme noise generating activities greater than 90 dBA
               shall be limited to between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.

            b) Any construction activity proposed to occur outside of the standard hours of 7:00 am to 7:00
               pm Monday through Friday for special activities (such as concrete pouring which may require


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                     DC&E
                                                       46                                                          February 13, 2008
                                                                                 Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                  more continuous amounts of time) shall be evaluated on a case by case basis, with criteria
                  including the proximity of residential uses and a consideration of resident's preferences for
                  whether the activity is acceptable if the overall duration of construction is shortened and such
                  construction activities shall only be allowed with the prior written authorization of the Building
                  Services Division.

            c) Construction activity shall not occur on Saturdays, with the following possible exceptions:

                   i. Prior to the building being enclosed, requests for Saturday construction for special activities
                      (such as concrete pouring which may require more continuous amounts of time), shall be
                      evaluated on a case by case basis, with criteria including the proximity of residential uses
                      and a consideration of resident's preferences for whether the activity is acceptable if the
                      overall duration of construction is shortened. Such construction activities shall only be
                      allowed on Saturdays with the prior written authorization of the Building Services Division.

                   ii. After the building is enclosed, requests for Saturday construction activities shall only be
                       allowed on Saturdays with the prior written authorization of the Building Services Division,
                       and only then within the interior of the building with the doors and windows closed.

            d) No extreme noise generating activities (greater than 90 dBA) shall be allowed on Saturdays,
               with no exceptions.

            e)    No construction activity shall take place on Sundays or Federal holidays.

            f)    Construction activities include but are not limited to: truck idling, moving equipment
                  (including trucks, elevators, etc) or materials, deliveries, and construction meetings held on-site
                  in a non-enclosed area.

            g) Applicant shall use temporary power poles instead of generators where feasible.

         STANDARD CONDITION NOISE-2: Noise Control
         Ongoing throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction
         To reduce noise impacts due to construction, the project applicant shall require construction
         contractors to implement a site-specific noise reduction program, subject to the Planning and Zoning
         Division and the Building Services Division review and approval, which includes the following
         measures:
           a) Equipment and trucks used for project construction shall utilize the best available noise control
               techniques (e.g., improved mufflers, equipment redesign, use of intake silencers, ducts, engine
               enclosures and acoustically-attenuating shields or shrouds, wherever feasible).
            b) Except as provided herein, impact tools (e.g., jack hammers, pavement breakers, and rock
               drills) used for project construction shall be hydraulically or electrically powered wherever
               possible to avoid noise associated with compressed air exhaust from pneumatically powered
               tools. However, where use of pneumatic tools is unavoidable, an exhaust muffler on the
               compressed air exhaust shall be used; this muffler can lower noise levels from the exhaust by up
               to about 10 dBA. External jackets on the tools themselves shall be used if such jackets are
               commercially available, and this could achieve a reduction of 5 dBA. Quieter procedures shall
               be used, such as drills rather than impact equipment, whenever such procedures are available
               and consistent with construction procedures.
            c) Stationary noise sources shall be located as far from adjacent receptors as possible, and they
               shall be muffled and enclosed within temporary sheds, incorporate insulation barriers, or use
               other measures as determined by the City to provide equivalent noise reduction.

St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                        47                                                       February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



            d) The noisiest phases of construction shall be limited to less than 10 days at a time. Exceptions
               may be allowed if the City determines an extension is necessary and all available noise
               reduction controls are implemented.


         STANDARD CONDITION NOISE-3: Pile Driving and Other Extreme Noise Generators
         Ongoing throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction
         To further reduce potential pier drilling, pile driving and/or other extreme noise generating
         construction impacts greater than 90dBA, a set of site-specific noise attenuation measures shall be
         completed under the supervision of a qualified acoustical consultant. Prior to commencing
         construction, a plan for such measures shall be submitted for review and approval by the Planning
         and Zoning Division and the Building Services Division to ensure that maximum feasible noise
         attenuation will be achieved. This plan shall be based on the final design of the project. A third-
         party peer review, paid for by the project applicant, may be required to assist the City in evaluating
         the feasibility and effectiveness of the noise reduction plan submitted by the project applicant. The
         criterion for approving the plan shall be a determination that maximum feasible noise attenuation
         will be achieved. A special inspection deposit is required to ensure compliance with the noise
         reduction plan. The amount of the deposit shall be determined by the Building Official, and the
         deposit shall be submitted by the project applicant concurrent with submittal of the noise reduction
         plan. The noise reduction plan shall include, but not be limited to, an evaluation of implementing the
         following measures. These attenuation measures shall include as many of the following control
         strategies as applicable to the site and construction activity:
            a) Erect temporary plywood noise barriers around the construction site, particularly along on
               sites adjacent to residential buildings;
            b) Implement "quiet" pile driving technology (such as pre-drilling of piles, the use of more than
               one pile driver to shorten the total pile driving duration), where feasible, in consideration of
               geotechnical and structural requirements and conditions;
            c)    Utilize noise control blankets on the building structure as the building is erected to reduce noise
                  emission from the site;
            d) Evaluate the feasibility of noise control at the receivers by temporarily improving the noise
                  reduction capability of adjacent buildings by the use of sound blankets for example and
                  implement such measure if such measures are feasible and would noticeably reduce noise
                  impacts; and
            e)    Monitor the effectiveness of noise attenuation measures by taking noise measurements.

         STANDARD CONDITION NOISE-4: Noise Compliant Procedures
         Ongoing throughout demolition, grading, and/or construction
         Prior to the issuance of each building permit, along with the submission of construction documents,
         the project applicant shall submit to the Building Services Division a list of measures to respond to
         and track complaints pertaining to construction noise. These measures shall include:
            a) A procedure and phone numbers for notifying the Building Services Division staff and Oakland
               Police Department; (during regular construction hours and off-hours);
            b) A sign posted on-site pertaining with permitted construction days and hours and complaint
               procedures and who to notify in the event of a problem. The sign shall also include a listing of
               both the City and construction contractor's telephone numbers (during regular construction
               hours and off-hours);


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                           DC&E
                                                        48                                               February 13, 2008
                                                                                     Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



            c) The designation of an on-site construction complaint and enforcement manager for the project;
            d) Notification of neighbors and occupants within 300 feet of the project construction area at least
               30 days in advance of extreme noise generating activities about the estimated duration of the
               activity; and
            e) A preconstruction meeting shall be held with the job inspectors and the general contractor/on-
               site project manager to confirm that noise measures and practices (including construction
               hours, neighborhood notification, posted signs, etc.) are completed.


      Implementation of Standard Conditions Noise-1 through Noise-4 would reduce construction noise levels
      from the project to the extent feasible, and thus project construction impacts would be considered less than
      significant.
                                                                                    Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                    Significant                           Significant
                                                                       Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                       Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                         Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
e) Create a vibration which is perceptible without instruments
by the average person at or beyond any lot line containing
vibration-causing activities not associated with motor vehicles,
trains, and temporary construction or demolition work, except
activities located within the (a) M-40 zone or (b) M-30 zone
more than 400 feet from any legally occupied residential
property (Oakland Planning Code Section 17.120.060)?

      Discussion of question (e):
      Project construction activities could result in temporary vibration typical of activities and equipment used for
      site preparation and construction of the bridge. The project would not involve activities that would involve
      severe vibration, such as pile driving. As previously noted, there are no vibration impacts associated with the
      project.


i) Be located within an airport land use plan and would expose
people residing or working in the project area to excessive
noise levels?

j) Be located within the vicinity of a private airstrip, and would
expose people residing or working in the project area to
excessive noise levels?

      Discussion of questions (i) and (j):
      The proposed site is not located within two miles of a public airport, or in the vicinity of a private airstrip.
      The closest public airport is the Oakland International Airport located approximately 15 miles south of the
      project site. Therefore, the project would not expose persons residing at the project site to excessive noise
      levels as a result of proximity to an airport or land strip. No impact would occur.

Sources: Oakland General Plan, Noise Element, June 2005.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                       DC&E
                                                        49                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XII. POPULATION AND HOUSING -- Would the project:

a) Induce substantial population growth in a manner not
contemplated in the General Plan either directly (for example
by proposing new homes and businesses) or indirectly (for
example, through extension of roads or other infrastructure),
such that additional infrastructure is required but the impacts
of such were not previously considered or analyzed?

b) Displace substantial numbers of existing housing,
necessitating the construction of replacement housing
elsewhere in excess of that contained in the City's Housing
Element?

c) Displace substantial numbers of people, necessitating the
construction of replacement housing elsewhere in excess of
that contained in the City's Housing Element?

      Discussion of questions (a) through (c):
      Both phases of the project would not result in the generation of any new housing units, or jobs that would
      contribute to population growth. Therefore, there would be no impact.
      _________________________
                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XIII. PUBLIC SERVICES - - Would the project:

a) Result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated
with the provision of new or physically altered governmental
facilities, need for new or physically altered governmental
facilities, the construction of which could cause significant
environmental impacts, in order to maintain acceptable service
ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for any
of the following public services:

         i) Fire protection?

         ii) Police protection?

         iii) Schools?

         iv) Other public facilities?




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                      50                                                         February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      Discussion of question (a):
      Neither phase of the project would result in the provision of new or physically altered governmental
      facilities. Phase 1 of the project will result in improved emergency vehicle access, which under current
      conditions, is constrained by the slope and angle of access on Gouldin Road. Therefore, there are no
      impacts.
      ___________________________
                                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XIV. RECREATION - - Would the project:

a) Increase the use of existing neighborhood and regional
parks or other recreational facilities such that substantial
physical deterioration of the facility would occur or be
accelerated?

b) Include recreational facilities or require the construction or
expansion of recreational facilities which might have an
adverse physical effect on the environment?

      Discussion of questions (a) and (b):
      The project would not generate any use of neighborhood or regional parks, nor would either phase include
      recreational facilities. Therefore, there are no impacts to recreation facilities.
      _________________________
                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with/
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XV. TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC - - Would the project:

a) Cause an increase in traffic which is substantial in relation
to the traffic load and capacity of the street system (i.e., result
in a substantial increase in either the number of vehicle trips,
the volume to capacity ratio on roads, or congestion at
intersections), or change the condition of an existing street
(i.e., street closures, changing direction of travel) in a manner
that would substantially impact access or traffic load capacity
of the street system? Specifically:

         i) At a study, signalized intersection which is located
         outside the Downtown area, the project would cause the
         level of service (LOS) to degrade to worse than LOS D
         (i.e., E)?

         ii) At a study, signalized intersection which is located
         within the Downtown area, the project would cause the
         LOS to degrade to worse than LOS E (i.e., F)?




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                        51                                                          February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist




      Discussion of questions (a.i) and (a.ii):
      The project would generate only two additional weekday and 25 additional Sunday peak hour trips. The
      additional trips generated during the weekday AM and PM peak hours would be very small and would have
      a less-than-significant impact on nearby intersections outside of the Downtown area. Because the project
      would not be located in a Downtown area, signalized intersections located within the Downtown area would
      not be affected.
                                                                                    Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                    Significant                           Significant
                                                                       Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                       Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                         Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
         iii) At a study, signalized intersection outside the
         Downtown area where the level of service is LOS E, the
         project would cause the total intersection average vehicle
         delay to increase by four (4) or more seconds, or degrade
         to worse than LOS E (i.e., F)?

         iv) At a study, signalized intersection for all areas where
         the level of service is LOS E, the project would cause an
         increase in the average delay for any of the critical
         movements of six (6) seconds or more, or degrade to
         worse than LOS E (i.e., F),

         v) At a study, signalized intersection for all areas where
         the level of service is LOS F, the project would cause (a)
         the total intersection average vehicle delay to increase by
         two (2) or more seconds, or (b) an increase in average
         delay for any of the critical movements of four (4)
         seconds or more; or (c) the volume-to-capacity ("V/C")
         ratio exceeds three (3) percent (but only if the delay
         values cannot be measured accurately)?

      Discussion of questions (a.iii) through (a.v):
      Impacts associated with intersection average vehicle delay at signalized intersections would be considered
      less than significant, since the project contribution to traffic at the signalized intersections in the project
      vicinity would be less than two trips during each of the weekday peak hours and 25 trips during the Sunday
      peak hour.

         vi) At a study, unsignalized intersection, the project
         would add ten (10) or more vehicles and after project
         completion satisfy the Caltrans peak hour volume
         warrant?
      Discussion of question (a.vi):
      During the Sunday peak hour, when the additional trips generated by the project would be greatest at 25
      trips, the unsignalized intersections serving the project site currently operate at LOS B. Based on traffic
      counts conducted in March 2007, the peak hour volumes would not satisfy Caltrans signal warrants.
      Therefore, the additional trips generated would have a less-than-significant impact.

b) A project's contribution to cumulative impacts is considered
"considerable" (i.e., significant) when the project results in a


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                        52                                                          February 13, 2008
                                                                                    Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



substantial increase in traffic. More specifically, the project
must exceed at least one of the intersection-related thresholds
listed above in threshold #i through #vi above for cumulative
2015 and 2030 conditions.

      Discussion of question (b):
      The project would generate an additional two trips during the weekday morning and evening peak hours
      and an additional 25 trips during the Sunday peak hour. This amount of traffic would not be considered a
      substantial increase in traffic. During the Sunday peak hour, the unsignalized intersections currently
      serving the project site operate at LOS B. Therefore, a less-than-significant impact would occur.

c) Cause a roadway segment on the Metropolitan
transportation System to operate at LOS F or increase the V/C
ratio by more than 3% for a roadway segment that would
operate at LOS F without the project?

      Discussion of question (c):
      Because the project is not located on a roadway segment on the Metropolitan Transportation System, there would
      be no impact on its LOS.

                                                                                   Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                           Significant
                                                                      Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                      Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                        Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
d) Result in a change in air traffic patterns, including either an
increase in traffic levels or a change in location that result in
substantial safety risks?

      Discussion of question (d):
      The project would not affect air traffic patterns. Therefore, no impact would occur.

e) Substantially increase hazards due to motor vehicles,
bicycles, or pedestrians due to a design feature (e.g., sharp
curves or dangerous intersections) that does not comply with
Caltrans design standards or incompatible uses (e.g., farm
equipment)?

f) Result in less than two emergency access routes for streets
exceeding 600 feet in length?

g) Fundamentally conflict with adopted policies, plans,
programs supporting alternative transportation (e.g. bus
turnouts, bicycle routes)?
      Discussion of question (e) through (g):
      Impacts associated with design of the project driveway and parking areas, including pedestrian safety and
      alternative transportation infrastructure will be further studied in the EIR. Specifically, the use of the parking
      by the adjacent Thornhill Elementary School and pedestrian and bicycle circulation along Thornhill will be
      addressed.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                      DC&E
                                                       53                                                           February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



h) Generate added transit ridership that would:

         i) Increase the average ridership on AC Transit lines by
         three (3) percent at bus stops where the average load
         factor with the project in place would exceed 125% over
         a peak thirty minute period?

         ii) Increase the peak hour average ridership on BART by
         three (3) percent where the passenger volume would
         exceed the standing capacity of BART trains?

         iii) Increase the peak hour average ridership at a BART
         station by three (3) percent where average waiting time
         at fare gates would exceed one minute?

    Discussion of question (h):
    The project would not significantly impact transit ridership. Therefore, no impact would occur.
___ _________________________
_____________
                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XVI. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS - - Would the
project:

a) Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of the San
Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board?

d) Result in a determination by the wastewater treatment
provider which serves or may serve the project that it does not
have adequate capacity to serve the project's projected demand
in addition to the providers' existing commitments and require
or result in construction of new wastewater treatment facilities
or expansion of existing facilities, construction of which could
cause significant environmental effects?

e) Be served by a landfill with insufficient permitted capacity
to accommodate the project's solid waste disposal needs and
require or result in construction of landfill facilities or
expansion of existing facilities, construction of which could
cause significant environmental effects?

f) Violate applicable federal, state, and local statutes and
regulations related to solid waste?

g) Violate applicable federal, state and local statutes and
regulations relating to energy standards?




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                       54                                                        February 13, 2008
                                                                                Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



      Discussion of questions (a) and (d) through (g):

      The project site is located in an urban area already served by utilities and service systems. The Community
      services Analysis, prepared for the Land Use and Transportation Element (LUTE) of the General Plan stated
      that future in-fill development through the General Plan horizon year of 2015 would not be likely to exceed
      the capacity of existing utilities and service systems.

      Phase 1 of the project would not result in increased generation of wastewater treatment, nor generate new
      solid waste. Phase 2 of the project could result in an increased attendance at church services, as projected in
      other sections of this report. Given the fact that the church is only heavily used once a week and on religious
      holidays, the potential increased demand would be insignificant. Neither phase of the project would violate
      any energy standards.

      In accordance with standard City practices, and in order to minimize any short-term (construction-related)
      or long-term impacts on waste systems, including landfill capacity, the applicant shall be required to
      implement the following uniformly-applied standard conditions of approval, which the City would apply to
      the project and that would reduce impacts to waste systems to a less-than-significant level:

      STANDARD CONDITION UTIL-1: Waste Reduction and Recycling
      Prior to issuance of demolition, grading, or building permit
      The project applicant will submit a Construction & Demolition Waste Reduction and Recycling Plan
      (WRRP) and an Operational Diversion Plan (ODP) for review and approval by the Public Works
      Agency. The WRRP must specify the methods by which the development will divert C&D debris
      waste generated by the proposed project from landfill disposal in accordance with current City
      requirements. After approval of the plan, the project applicant shall implement the plan.
      On an on-going basis, the ODP will identify how the project complies with the Recycling Space
      Allocation Ordinance, (Chapter 17.118 of the Oakland Municipal Code), including capacity
      calculations, and specify the methods by which the development will meet the current diversion of
      solid waste generated by operation of the proposed project from landfill disposal in accordance with
      current City requirements. The proposed program shall be in implemented and maintained for the
      duration of the proposed activity or facility. Changes to the plan may be re-submitted to the
      Environmental Services Division of the Public Works Agency for review and approval. Any incentive
      programs shall remain fully operational as long as residents and businesses exist at the project site.

b) Require or result in construction of new storm water
drainage facilities or expansion of existing facilities,
construction of which could cause significant environmental
effects?

      As noted in Section VIII, Hydrology and Water Quality, construction of both phases of the project would
      increase the amount of impervious surfaces by 13 percent compared to existing conditions. With the planned
      use of pervious surface areas and stormwater detention facilities on site, the overall volume would be less
      than the estimated increase. Given the minor increase in overall runoff volume, the amount would be
      negligible and would not require expansion of stormwater facilities.




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                  DC&E
                                                      55                                                        February 13, 2008
Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
c) Exceed water supplies available to serve the project from
existing entitlements and resources, and require or result in
construction of water facilities or expansion of existing
facilities, construction of which could cause significant
environmental effects?

      Discussion of question (c):

Construction of Phase 1 and 2 of the project would entail additional use of minor amounts of water for the
additional landscape areas and for the new sanctuary building, but would not exceed water supplies or require
expansion of existing facilities.

h) Result in a determination by the energy provider which
serves or may serve the project that it does not have adequate
capacity to serve the project's projected demand in addition to
the providers' existing commitments and require or result in
construction of new energy facilities or expansion of existing
facilities, construction of which could cause significant
environmental effects?

      Discussion of questions (h):
      The increased energy demand from the project would be associated with new parking lot lighting in Phase 1,
      and the new sanctuary building in Phase 2. The project would increase energy consumption at the project
      site, but not to a degree that would require construction or expansion of new facilities. The project demand
      would be typical for a project of this scope and nature and would meet or exceed current state and local codes
      and standards concerning energy consumption, including Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations
      enforced by the City of Oakland through its building permit review process. The project would have a less
      than significant impact regarding energy.
      _________________________

                                                                                 Potentially                           Less Than
                                                                                 Significant                           Significant
                                                                    Potentially    Unless      Less Than                  with
                                                                    Significant Mitigation     Significant     No     Development
                                                                      Impact    Incorporated     Impact      Impact    Standards
XVII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE

a) Does the project have the potential to degrade the quality of
the environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or
wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife population to drop
below self-sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or
animal community, reduce the number or restrict the range of a
rare or endangered plant or animal, or eliminate important
examples of the major periods of California history or
prehistory?

b) Does the project have impacts that are individually limited,
but cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively considerable"


St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                   DC&E
                                                      56                                                         February 13, 2008
                                                                               Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist



means that the incremental effects of a project are considerable
when viewed in connection with the effects of past projects,
the effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable
future projects.)

c) Does the project have environmental effects which will
cause substantial adverse effects on human beings, either
directly or indirectly?

      Discussion of questions (a) through (c):
      Potential mandatory findings of significance impacts will be addressed in the EIR.
      _________________________




St. Johns Church Project                                                                                                 DC&E
                                                      57                                                       February 13, 2008
A   P P E N D I X                   C




COMMENTS ON NOTICE OF
PREPARATION/INITIAL STUDY




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
From: Pamm Drake [dance10dancers@hotmail.com]
Sent: Thursday, April 10, 2008 12:48 PM
To: Quitevis, Caesar
Subject: St. John's Episcopal Church Plans
Caesar Quitevis
Community and Economic Development Agency
250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 2216
Oakland Ca. 94612
510 238 6343
email clquitevis@oaklandnet.com


April 9, 2008

Case number ER08-0001

COMMENTS FOR PREPARATION OF A DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REPORT FOR ST. JOHN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH IN OAKLAND, CA.

Dear Mr. Quitevis,

My name is Carl Eric Anderson and I live at 1675 Gouldin Rd in Oakland, adjacent to St.
John's Episcopal Church and sharing a driveway with 5928 Thornhill Drive.

My comments on the Initial Study and Environmental Review Checklist prepared for St.
John's Episcopal Church Project (ER08-0001) follow:


BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES: Would the project fundamentally conflict with the City of
Oakland Tree Preservation and Removal Ordinance (Oakland Municipal Code (OMC)
Chapter 12.36) by removal of protected trees under certain circumstances? Factors to be
considered in determining significance include: The number, type, size, location and
condition of (a) the protected trees to be removes and/or impacted by construction and (b)
the protected trees to remain, with special consideration given to native trees.

The proposed project fundamentally conflicts with the City of Oakland Preservation and
Removal Ordinance (Oakland Municipal Code (OMC) Chapter 12.36) for all the native
trees designated as "protected."

The two largest redwoods and the largest oak are at particular risk due to:

       Damage to almost 50% of their roots
       Removal of 12 inches of topsoil and feeder roots
       A drainage system to reduce normal infiltration
       Compaction that will further reduce water infiltration
       Curb footing of 2 and 3 foot depths will effectively block roots from re-growth
       A path between trees that may damage their crowns
    Parking spaces under the drip line seem to violate the most critical area of tree
    protection

Where I work in Oakland, three large trees have fallen after trenching near their bases:
one fell into an unpopulated patio, one crushed three cars in a parking lot, and one
brushed a pedestrian to the ground. The large trees affected by the proposed plan will
also be near buildings, cars and people. I am sure you can see why I am concerned.

The EIR should include a rigorous and thorough discussion of all procedures and
methods which will be implemented to protect the large trees below ground level. On site
supervision and documentation is critical to ensure compliance. Alternatives such as
reducing the number of parking spaces and including wide "root corridors" should also
be discussed.

Thanks you for your consideration of these matters.

Respectfully submitted,



Carl Eric Anderson
1675 Gouldin Rd
Oakland Ca 94611
                                                                    Todd Freter
                                                                    Roger Saut
                                                                    5900 Thornhill Drive
                                                                    Oakland, CA 94611-2149
                                                                    April 2, 2008
Caesar Quitevis
Community and Economic Development Agency
250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 2216
Oakland, CA 94612
Re: Case number ER08-0001
Dear Mr. Quitevis:
We are residents of the Montclair neighborhood, and we live in close proximity to Saint John's
Episcopal Church (SCJ). We have been aware of the SJC expansion project since 2002. We
understand that a Notice of Preparation (NOP) of an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) has
been filed for this project. We wish to comment on the NOP and in particular on the scope of the
EIR as described in the NOP.
We understand that the currently planned EIR will include these required subjects among the
range of potentially required subjects:
   z   Biological Resources
   z   Hydrology/Water Quality
   z   Mandatory Findings of Significance
   z   Transportation/Traffic
We believe that two additional subjects also need to be required in the EIR:
   z   Aesthetics
   z   Geology/Soils
Our reasoning for requesting these two additions follow.

Aesthetics
There should be no doubt that the SJC plan will have a major visual impact on many Montclair
residents due to these project components and their results:
   z   Extensive tree removal: Many mature trees will be removed in Phase 1, with replacement
       vegetation likely to take decades to attain the stature and density of the trees that will be
       cut down.
   z   A new, spired sanctuary: By erecting a new sanctuary between Alhambra Lane and
       Gouldin Road, Phase 2 the SJC project increases this non-residential, institutional
       aesthetic and reduces the sylvan, residential aesthetic of lower Thornhill Drive.
   z   Increased institutional use (cars and people) on a formerly residential parcel: The
       large, new sanctuary and a wide paved entry for cars will open the parcel at 5928
       Thornhill to increased non-residential use by hundreds of people on a weekly basis.

                                           Page 1 of 2
These effects of the SJC plan will have a major visual and aesthetic impact for many people.
Thornhill Drive is a principal street in and out of Montclair, and the SJC project site will be
visible to all pedestrians and drivers on Thornhill Drive. The impact will also be visible to homes
overlooking the SJC project site on Marden Lane and Merriewood Drive to the north and from
Alhambra Drive, upper Alhambra Lane and Mazuela Drive to the south.
Lower Thornhill Drive already has a large Presbyterian church and its structures amidst the
residences. Thornhill Elementary School also imposes a major institutional footprint on the
residential character of Thornhill Drive. These structures already have a major institutional
impact on their residential neighbors.
For these reasons we favor a required section on Aesthetics in the EIR for the SJC project.

Geology/Soils
We are not confident that the uphill land adjacent to the project site is sufficiently stable to
withstand the effects of extensive excavation.
Reports have been circulating for years about earth movement and the stability of the hillside
land under 1715 Gouldin Road (the SJC rectory property) and 1731 Gouldin Road (a residential
neighbor to SJC). We believe that, at a minimum, independent geological studies need to assure
that planned excavation will not weaken the hillside and encourage slides, particularly in the
event of seismic activity on the nearby Hayward fault. Thus we believe that the EIR should
include a section on Geology and Soils.


We hope that you and the Planning Commission will take these important factors into account in
the EIR for the SJC plan. While the four topics originally identified for the EIR are valid and
justified, we believe that sufficient justification exists to require an environmental analysis of
plan's impact on Aesthetics and Geology/Soils.
Thank you for your consideration.
                                                                      Sincerely,


                                                                      /s/ Todd Freter
                                                                      /s/ Roger Saut




                                             Page 2 of 2
                 St John's Episcopal Church - ER08-001singleton.txt
From: M.M. Singleton [mmsfolly@earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, March 24, 2008 6:27 PM
To: Quitevis, Caesar
Cc: Quan, Jean; nhavassy@comcast.net
Subject: St John's Episcopal Church - ER08-001

March 24, 2008
Re: ER08-0001

Dear Mr. Quitevis:
I am writing about the pending EIR for St. John's Episcopal church.
I understand that the City has not required St. John's to address the
issue of aesthetics in the EIR.

Aesthetics is one reason homeowners live in the neighborhoods that
they have chosen. The neighborhood in which I live is zoned single-
family/residential. Granted, Oakland's General Plan for Hillside
Residential areas is not specific, one can assume that single family
areas should not be burdened by large complexes. Although Thornhill
Drive is a main street for getting to Skyline Drive, it significantly
narrows beyond Thornhill School. This seems to indicate that the
neighborhood beyond the school is not meant to incorporate major
crowds and an industrial atmosphere.

St. John's proposed parking lot is beyond Thornhill School and on one
of the narrowest parts of Thornhill Drive and has no existing
sidewalks to widen the road. Additionally the proposed parking lot
is directly across from the City's Merriewood access stairway and
pedestrian crossing. St. John's proposed church (Phase II) is a 33
foot structure in the midst of one-story homes.
St. John's plans to remove 46 mature trees for the proposed parking
lot. These trees would be gone before their time -- not by an act of
God, i.e., the Oakland fire -- but an unnecessary act of man. A
medium-sized church is not an eye-sore, however a large parking lot
and a 33 foot structure (Phase II of the project) in the middle of
single story homes in a wooded area is unpalatable.

Sadly, an incredibly small few of St. John's parishioners live in the
neighborhood. The parishioners come into our neighborhood once a
week for 1 hour. We would have to live with St. John's overly
ambitious plans on a daily basis. Would the parishioners want their
property values to possibly further decline or have some commercial-
appearing complex across the street from their homes? I doubt it. I
guess it's easy to destroy someone else's view, peace, and tranquility.


Sincerely,
Marilyn M. Singleton
1666 Gouldin Rd
Oakland, CA




                                      Page 1
                                                                                             Page 1 of 2



From: Nancy Havassy [nhavassy@comcast.net]
Sent: Monday, April 07, 2008 10:07 AM
To: Quitevis, Caesar
Cc: Eric Kawakami; Elaine Kawakami; George Moestue; Leila Moncharsh; Pamm and Eric; Todd
Freter; Tyler and Alice; Quan, Jean; Cowan, Richard; Piper, Susan
Subject: Scoping comment for ER08-0001 DEIR
March 26, 2008
 
 
 
To Whom It May Concern:
 
My name is Jan Hamilton.  I am the granddaughter of Dr. Mark Emerson and his wife, Alice.  My 
mother and I lived with my grandparents from 1935 to 1943 in a rambling house located where the 
Episcopal Church now stands.  My earliest memories were of the magnificent gardens.  Pathways 
wound through an astounding collection of trees, plants and flowers of every description, creating a 
perfect wonderland for a young and imaginative child.  The property, covering approximately four 
acres,  and intersected by a yearround creek, had at one time been an elegant estate, carefully tended 
by a multitude of gardeners.  Now, the towering rhododendrons and rambling wisteria, the huge trees 
and tiny creeping ground covers presented quite a challenge to my grandmother. 
 
Alice Emerson was a very interesting lady.  She was working as a nurse when she met her future 
husband, and later, after the birth of her six children, earned her degree in Botany from the University 
of California.  She kept up a lively correspondence with Luther Burbank over the ensuing years and was 
most interested in his research.  She often asked his advice about plant varieties with which she was 
unfamiliar as she tended her treasured garden.  
 
Years after my mother and I had moved away and my Grandmother Alice had died, my Grandfather 
sold his home to the Episcopal Church.  It has turned out to be a sad burden for the heirs, especially 
those who have built their own homes on the remaining property.
 
Over the years, as I have visited Montclair from time to time, I have noticed that it has gradually 
become more congested.  It seems as if every square inch must be used for structures or driveways, as 
Bay Area residents flee to the beauty of the verdant hill country.   In their fervor to enjoy a quiet, 
beautiful neighborhood, the newcomers are inadvertently destroying it.  A sprawling school stands 
where there used to be an orchard; I am not sure it would be safe for a young child to walk unescorted 
along Thornhill Drive( as I used to) because of the traffic  congestion.
 
It  is my understanding that The Episcopal Church wants to increase its parking space areas and provide 
safe ingress and egress to them.  They view this as a natural consequence of a growing congregation's 
needs.  Unfortunately, their perceived needs would most certainly impact the property adversely.  
More asphalt and cement, more cars, more exhaust fumes, and more foot traffic will certainly take 
their toll.  
 
It seems to me that this goes further toward impacting the existing environment than my Grandfather 
could have imagined at the time.  I am confident that he did not envision such invasive future changes 
to the rest  of the property.   He trusted the church to be good stewards of the beautiful gift he 



file://J:\703W-St. Johns\02_Background Data\Comment Letters\NOP Comments\Scoping ... 1/12/2009
                                                                                           Page 2 of 2



offered.   
 
I hope that the Environmental Impact Report will take these thoughts into consideration.
 
Sincerely,
 
Jan Hamilton




file://J:\703W-St. Johns\02_Background Data\Comment Letters\NOP Comments\Scoping ... 1/12/2009
                                                                                               Page 1 of 1



From: George Moestue [moestue@sbcglobal.net]
Sent: Sunday, April 06, 2008 12:20 PM
To: Quitevis, Caesar
Cc: Leila H. Moncharsh
Subject: St. John's geotechnical report.
Caesar Quitevis
Community and Economic Development Agency
250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 2216
Oakland, Ca. 94612
Case number ER08-0001

Dear Caesar
The attached report in section 9.8.4 on pages 27 and 28 explains the impervious nature of soils beneath
the permeable storage layer and that piping will be required to drain the storage layer to the storm drain
system which in this case is the creek. Please seek clarification of this systems relevance in the EIR.
Sincerely,
George Moestue




file://J:\703W-St. Johns\02_Background Data\Comment Letters\NOP Comments\St. John's... 1/12/2009
                                              LAW OFFICES
                                  VENERUSO & MONCHARSH
                                        5707 REDWOOD RD., SUITE 10
DONNA M. VENERUSO, P.C.                  OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA 94619
LEILA H. MONCHARSH, P.C.                   TELEPHONE (510) 482-0390
                                             FACSIMILE (510) 482-0391




     April 9, 2008

     Via email:
     Ms. Lesley Estes
     Watershed Program Supervisor
     Environmental Services
     Public Works Agency
     Oakland, CA 94612


     Caesar Quitevis
     Planner II, City of Oakland
     Community and Economic Development Agency
     250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza
     Oakland, CA 94612



     Re: ER08-0001

     Dear Mr. Quitevis and Ms. Estes:

     This is to request that the city employee(s) assigned to review and enforce the Oakland
     Creek Ordinance review the St. John's proposed project given its noncompliance with
     the ordinance. I understand that there is a department or individual who is responsible
     for making sure that the Creek Ordinance is complied with. Thus far, the neighbors have
     not heard from that person or persons in charge of making sure that all projects comply
     with the ordinance. Without review by the proper person or persons, this project could go
     forward despite its obvious violation of the ordinance.


     Specifically, quoting from The City of Oakland's Guide to the Creek Ordinance, here
     are some of the activities that are typically not allowed that this project is in conflict
     with:

      "What is typically NOT allowed?
     Projects and activities that would generally not meet the criteria in the ordinance:
     · removal of riparian vegetation zones (even if in a fire area, fire abatement guidelines
        are available at the building and engineering services counter)
     · changing or moving the location of the creek
     · structures spanning the creek (such as bridge, house, garage, or deck)
     · removal of tree canopies over creeks
     · grading of creek banks
     · filling, pile driving, or deposition of any new material to creek bank or bed"
St. John's has access to 5928 Thornhill Drive, the site of the proposed parking lot
and bridge over Temescal Creek, from their 1707 Gouldin Road property and
existing parking lot.

There are alternatives to building a vehicular bridge across the creek and St. John's
will not "be deprived of the economically viable use of their property."

Please see the attached letter dated 3/24/08 submitted by George Moestue. In the
last section of his letter, Alternative to the Expansion Plan, he suggests their existing
Gouldin Road entrance can be modified by widening and grading to allow two-way
traffic, a traffic circle to allow for fire truck egress, and improved parking. (Drawing
also attached)

St. John's wants to increase their visibility by creating a grand new entrance on
Thornhill Drive. The section of the creek at 5928 Thornhill Drive is a day-lighted and
wild creek. It doesn't need to be restored to a natural state. The new entrance and
bridge have nothing to do with creek restoration. Moving the creek does not
restore the creek. Increased runoff from impervious surfaces causes erosion. The
creek has been neglected and is overgrown with weeds, but basic maintenance and
stewardship would go a long way to improving the site.

St. John's bridge plan is an unnecessary intrusion on the creek and neighborhood.
No home owner with access to their property would be allowed to build a bridge over
the creek. Please do not allow St. John's to violate and weaken the Oakland Creek
Protection Ordinance.

I am also copying Council member Quan's office and the Planning Commission to
assure that the City does not lose sight of enforcing the Creek Ordinance. City
employees, elected officials and Oakland's citizens all worked very hard to make
sure that we had an ordinance to protect our valuable creeks. Everyone agreed that
Oakland's creeks are biological and aesthetic gems throughout our city. They are a
unique asset to our quality of life and very few cities can boast of having this
particular attribute.

Please notify me regarding the proper person or persons who will be reviewing this
project and determining whether I am correct and the project violates the ordinance.
Thank you for your attention to my correspondence.



Very truly yours,

Leila H. Moncharsh
April 1, 2008


Caesar Quitevis
Planner II, City of Oakland
Community and Economic Development Agency
250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza
Suite 2216
Oakland, CA 94612

RE: Case # ER08-0001

Dear Mr. Quitevis,

       We are residents of Montclair and have lived at 5950 Thornhill Drive for nearly
25 years. We are writing to express our concern about the scope and content of the
proposed EIR for the St. John's Episcopal Church improvements. We do not believe that
the proposal is adequate in the areas described below:

1. Aesthetics

         It is clear that under CEQA aesthetics are to be considered as part of an EIR
where appropriate. Here, this important topic has been dismissed as insignificant. The
initial study states that although the project would change the visual character of the site
and surroundings, the changes would be less than significant because "the site is currently
developed." This implies that a large parking lot is the equivalent of the existing single
family home and wooded site. This is simply not true. From our home we look out
across our neighbor's driveway at 5940 towards the proposed parking lot. We can see
many of the tall trees that are proposed for removal. St. John's proposal will literally cut
a hole in the middle of our neighborhood and forever alter its wooded, residential
character. We are not the only ones to be affected by this project, however. Montclair
residents driving down Thornhill will clearly see the parking lot through the large
opening created by the bridge, instead of the tree-lined street that exists today. The many
pedestrians who walk along this section of Thornhill, enjoying the wooded, residential
character of the neighborhood, will now be confronted by a parking lot filled with as
many as 30 cars. The crushed granite surface can do nothing to soften the impact of this
profound change, despite what the initial study states. The many views of this property
from homes and streets surrounding the site will also be adversely affected.
         The proposed project description inaccurately states that the property at 5928 is
unoccupied. To our knowledge the home on that site continues to be occupied as it has
been for all of the years that we have lived in Montclair. The destruction of this house
would remove one of the residences in the neighborhood and reduce the number of
residents in our community. The initial study also mentions two other properties owned
by St. John's, located at 5914 Thornhill Drive and 1676 Alhambra Lane. The plan,
however, is silent as to future development of these parcels. In fact, it is possible that the
current proposal already encroaches on these properties; the initial study does not show
the existing property lines so it is unclear whether this is the case. The EIR should be
required to address this. The EIR should also be required to include a discussion of
future development of these parcels, and whether the church's current proposal is just the
first step in a larger plan to significantly change the character of the neighborhood by
reducing the number of homes in the immediate area by three. The EIR should also
require a detailed discussion of the projected uses of the new facilities. Current use of the
church property is, for the most part, limited to Sunday services and a few weekly
meetings. Use of the property for more frequent and larger events, however, would have
a substantial impact on the ability of other residents of the community to peacefully enjoy
their property.
         The impact of the new sanctuary building is also treated inadequately in the
proposal. This building is simply much too large to fit into the existing residential
neighborhood. The initial study dismisses concerns by noting that the living room
windows of the house to the south would be five feet higher than the roof of the new
sanctuary. This is not an acceptable analysis of such an important issue. It ignores the
tall bell tower and the overall bulk of the structure. The diagrams included in the initial
study show that the new structure dwarfs the existing parish hall building, which sits on a
lower part of the site and has a much more modest profile. The new building will be
clearly visible from homes and streets that overlook the site, and will be seen by all who
drive or walk by on Gouldin.
         Replacing a wooded property with a parking lot, and building an elaborate new
sanctuary building, will seriously damage the visual quality of our neighborhood and
fundamentally change its residential, sylvan character. To dismiss our concerns about the
aesthetic impact of these proposals as superficially as the initial study does violates the
protections afforded by CEQA. Surely it is the purpose of the CEQA process to ensure
that aesthetic impacts are fully examined and that all sides have the chance to present
evidence. To have this important issue dismissed at the outset, with no opportunity for us
to gather input from the wider neighborhood, especially from residents outside the very
limited "official notice" area, is simply unfair. The remedy is quite obvious, however.
All that we ask is that the aesthetic impact of the St. John's proposals be added to the
scope of the draft EIR. If this is done, then all sides will be afforded an equal opportunity
to make their case.

2. Transportation/Traffic

        Although this topic is within the announced scope of the draft EIR, we want to
make certain that all aspects are considered. During the time that we have lived in our
home, we have peacefully coexisted with St. John's. Cars entering their existing parking
lot are directed around the perimeter of our neighborhood, leaving our part of the canyon
in a typical rustic Montclair state. Of course there have been traffic problems over the
years, especially on major religious occasions such as Easter or Christmas. The proposed
plan, however, will do nothing to alleviate these problems; it will simply move them
around the corner onto Thornhill, a street that can ill afford additional cars. Any study of
the traffic impact must take into account the fact that for many years the St. John's
parking lot has been shared with Thornhill School. Teachers park in the lot, as do parents
visiting the school for various daytime and evening events. All of this school traffic will
now be driving through our neighborhood instead of around it. Any traffic study must
also address the impact of this project on children walking to school along Thornhill, as
my children did when they were in elementary school. Cars entering and exiting this lot
will drive across the walkway, further endangering pedestrians and snarling traffic along
Thornhill. Also, we anticipate that the addition of the new sanctuary to the St. John's
complex will mean that many more events will be held in the facility; such events cannot
now be accommodated in the existing parish hall. This increased traffic will have a
serious negative impact on the neighborhood and must be addressed.

3. Geology and Soils

         We are uneasy about the cursory treatment of this issue in the initial study
document. The changes proposed for the creek, the changes in the grade of the existing
parking lot and the construction of a large new building near a hillside of uncertain
stability must all be fully explored. Here again, we need to be given the opportunity to
seek input on a very important topic. Geology and soils, along with aesthetics, should be
added to the scope of the draft EIR.

4. Biological Resources

        Although this topic is included in the scope of the draft EIR, we have some
particular concerns that we would like to see addressed. The proposed parking lot is
immediately adjacent to Temescal Creek. The creek runs many miles upstream from the
project site into the Oakland Hills and downstream to Lake Temescal. It is a major
riparian corridor for deer, raccoon, opossum, skunk, wild turkey and many species of
birds. The project may have a dramatic impact on wildlife in the area because of the
proposed changes to the creek. The use of the property, particularly the parking lot, may
also result in degradation of the creek due to storm water runoff and other pollutants that
end up in the creek. We ask that the EIR include careful consideration of all possible
effects of the project, not just in the immediate vicinity but in all adjoining areas as well.
The EIR should, for example, contain a discussion of possible runoff into the creek and
the effect that runoff would have on fish and wildlife in Lake Temescal.

5. Alternatives

        We see from the NOP that the draft EIR must examine reasonable alternatives to
the project, including the no-project alternative required by CEQA. We are very
concerned, however, about these topics being adequately covered in the EIR. From the
time this project was first announced, St. John's has been unwilling to address any of the
alternatives suggested by neighbors. The project as it exists today is unchanged in any
significant way from what was presented to us at the first community meeting several
years ago. It is essential that the EIR contain a detailed discussion and analysis of project
alternatives that will allow St. John's to fulfill its objectives while at the same time
preserving the character of the existing neighborhood. Careful consideration should also
be given to onsite development that would avoid the drastic changes to the neighborhood
proposed in the current plan.

Thank you for your attention.

Sincerely


Alice I. Youmans


Tyler B. Pon
5950 Thornhill Drive
(510)339-2234
tylerpon@comcast.net
         COMMENTS FOR PREPARATION OF A DRAFT
       ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT FOR ST. JOHN'S
            EPISCOPAL CHURCH IN OAKLAND, CA.


Caesar Quitevis
Community and Economic Development Agency
250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 2216
Oakland, Ca. 94612
Case number ER08-0001

Dear Caesar                                                          3/24/08

Aesthetics:
Please reconsider including this important aspect to the environmental study. In the
checklist discussion of aesthetics it says, " There are no scenic vistas from the site;
therefore, the project would not have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista."
Although there is not a scenic vista from the proposed site of the parking lot and bridge, I
would suggest for many people in the Thornhill canyon, for people driving on Thornhill
Dr., for surrounding home owners who look down onto this site and for neighbors with
abutting properties this site is a part of their scenic view.

Removing the house and substituting a large parking lot and bridge will substantially
degrade the existing visual character or quality of the site and it's surroundings.

There is currently an unbroken vista of green along the frontage of 5928 Thornhill.
Approximately 60 ft. of the 100 ft. frontage of the proposed parking lot site would
become paving in order to access the proposed bridge. Instead of green the view through
this large hole will be of parked cars.

This site is on a creek in a valley that is surrounded by Oakland homeowners. Looking
down from their residences they see trees, residences, a large church and parking lot. The
aerial view of the proposed land use provided with the Initial Study and Environmental
Review Checklist does not reflect the removal of the trees to build the parking lot and
bridge. In fact, the roof of the house and an exhaust vent are still visible in the proposed
land use figure 4. I also point out that the private drive and carports at 5940 Thornhill are
completely misrepresented. If this project is built, the existing parking lot becomes
another big church while a small residence becomes a big parking lot. This an aesthetic
change that degrades the view of the surrounding community.

For the adjacent neighbors to this site, the parking lot and bridge are more than an
aesthetic umbrage. It is a division of their community by an ever-growing footprint of an
institution in their neighborhood. It is majestic mature native trees being replaced by
asphalt and non native ginkgo trees in 2 foot by 2 foot squares surrounded by paving.
The change of a home into a parking lot is a significant aesthetic change to the visual
character of their community.
                                             -2-



Biological Resources:
The Removal of 44 protected mature trees may take decades to replace. Many of these
trees are at the 5928 Thornhill house site. The replacement trees are spread out over the
entire St. John's campus. Redwood trees will be removed for "creek restoration", but
willows will be used instead of redwoods during the restoration. If you go down and view
the creek, it winds around the redwoods and they stabilize the banks. Stabilize with
willows, but don't move the creek or cut the redwoods.

 I'm most concerned about the trees that won't be removed that are close to the
construction. There are over 70 trees listed on the preservation inventory. There are two
Coast Redwood trees one with a diameter of 54" the other 66". These trees are towering
majestic trees. They are on the edge of the construction. The Oakland Developmental
standards require that "protected trees be surrounded by a chain link fence with a
diameter of four feet outside the drip line during construction. This may be determined
otherwise by the tree reviewer or the owner's representative. This fence may be removed
for construction." The 54" Coast Redwood will have excavation for a retaining wall
within 3' of its trunk to effect a grade change for a parking place. The 66" tree is one of a
pair of redwoods growing 4 ½ feet apart along the southwest side of the site. The second
tree is 38" in diameter. Redwoods grow together and it is part of the reason that these
trees can grow so tall. The 6 foot wide path that follows the edge of the parking lot on
the same side of the site goes between these two trees. The 38" tree is within 6 feet of the
parking excavation. If these tree roots are damaged and the trees die it will take at least a
hundred years to replace them.

The creek and big trees attract many birds and mammals and amphibians. I have
personally witnessed deer, skunks, opossum, raccoon, squirrels, red tail hawks, cooper
hawks, many wrens, juncos, warblers, robins, jays, rufous-sided towhees, varied thrush,
acorn wood peckers, yellow bellied sapsuckers, wild turkey, snakes and salamanders on
the property at 5940 Thornhill Dr. At my residence, 6708 Pinehaven Rd., which is less
than a mile up the Thornhill canyon, I have personally witnessed coyote, red foxes, a
swainson's hawk, great horned owls and one amazing dusk evening in 2007 a ringtail cat.
The fact that this canyon has incredible wildlife within the City of Oakland's borders is
an asset I would like to see well protected.
                                             -3-


Hydrology/ Water Quality;
I have concerns about how storm water detention can be accomplished under the parking
lot. In the report, prepared for St. John's by Land and Marine Geotechnics, Bill Rudolph
talks about the permeability of the soil beneath the parking lot. "The test results indicated
permeability varying from1.4 E-08 to 5.0 E-07 centimeters per second. These relatively
low values indicating a very slow infiltration rate from pavement components into the
subgrade soils." The parking lot is pitched to the creek and drainage piping in the sub
grade water storage will run into the creek, because water will not be absorbed into the
clay beneath the gravel effectually. Any water that does not run off the asphalt or
compacted granite will find itself quickly in the creek. This condition makes this area
part of the total impervious area. The run off has no place to go except directly into the
creek unlike other areas where distance from the creek creates a buffer.

After the demolition of the house at 5928 Thornhill the church plans to abandon the
existing shared driveway. This driveway crosses the creek over a culvert. I measured the
distance that the driveway is above the creek at the south east side of the culvert. On
3/24/08 the creek was 9 feet below and three feet away from the driveway edge. This is a
300% grade, nearly vertical at the very edge of the driveway. I am concerned that large
trucks carrying tons of debris and excavators may damage the fragile edge of this nine
foot wide gravel driveway and it may collapse into the creek.

The other section of the Temescal Creek that is on the church's property is the branch
that runs under the asphalt that will be removed in phase 1 when the Gouldin road
entrance is abandoned. This section was paved over well before the Oakland Creek
ordinance was written. It daylights at the north west corner of the education building and
then it joins the main branch of the creek.

If the creek is moved large amounts of soil will be disturbed. The creek goes
underground at Alhambra Ct. and mitigating soil that washes underground so close to the
construction site will be difficult to control. I would hope bank stabilization near
Thornhill Dr. could be accomplished without moving the creek.




Noise
The addition of a meeting hall to the site may add evening or day events such as lectures,
wedding receptions with music, anniversary parties with music, concerts and other events
that have amplification as part of the event. The canyon and site are fairly quiet. Sound
travels well. Amplified events may exceed noise limitations.

There are teenage revelers who are partying in the existing parking lot at night.
                                             -4-



Transportation/Traffic
I am concerned about the traffic load that comes from the shared usage of the new
entrance to St. John's by Thornhill School parents. The planned in and out at the same
location on Thornhill drive may back up traffic in the morning and afternoon as parents
use this egress to access the school.

The two school busses that drop special education children at the side entrance may be
affected.

The children dropped off in the parking area closest to Thornhill Dr. may be endangered
as they walk along Thornhill where there are no sidewalks.

The parking format of parking straight in with short spaces could back up traffic on
Thornhill as parents or parishioners try to all leave or enter at once. There are events at
the school on the weekend or sometimes during the week (the first day of school, back to
school night, school carnival, the walkathon, the Halloween parade, the science fair,
graduation) that create heavy traffic and parking now. Every available parking space,
legal or otherwise on the street or in the church lot is filled during these special events.
This new circulation plan may add to this problem.

The church as well has events that crowd the parking lots beyond the average additional
25 trips on Sunday.

The intersection of Gouldin Rd. and Thornhill Dr. is a dangerous one. Traffic turning left
from Gouldin onto Thornhill has a blind view of approaching southbound Thornhill
traffic. Some drivers prefer to go through the church parking lot and turn out of
Alhambra Court in order to see traffic coming from a longer distance.

The new large meeting hall, the converted sanctuary, may be rented out for events. This
revenue would be hard for the church to pass up considering the debt acquired from this
large expansion. Events could include wedding receptions, lectures, anniversary parties,
concerts and similar events that the Montclair Woman's Cultural Center at Thornhill and
Mountain now holds. These events would add to traffic and parking load.

The Oakland Unified School District may have issued a policy that parking will not be
allowed on any school grounds that is not for school related events. This is a liability
issue for the school even if it is against community interest. If this is true then parking
for both Montclair Presbyterian and St. John's Episcopal churches would be much
restricted. It would be important to know if this is in fact Oakland District policy and
when it would be put into effect. Would St. John's reciprocate by closing its parking to
Thornhill parents?
                                            -5-



Alternative to the Expansion Plan
The City of Oakland Guide to the Creek Ordinance has a section called "What is
typically not allowed". This project includes at least four of these not allowed categories.
Here is one plan that may meet the parameters that will not require a bridge across the
creek, removing a residence, or cutting down 44 protected trees.

Three partitions can be removed from the current education building's first floor on the
northwest end. This would give the church a meeting hall with the dimensions of 20 feet
by 60 feet. This meeting hall would be right off the existing kitchen and on the same
level as the sanctuary. In order to allow two-way traffic into the existing parking lot, the
entrance could be widened and graded. A traffic circle, retaining walls to create
additional parking and using the existing Alhambra Court exit would be all that is
required. Except for the grade change at the entrance, this project is at existing grade.
Only one protected tree would have to be removed. The site would have forty-eight
parking spaces. Existing asphalt could be removed in parking areas to decrease the effect
of impervious paving. Project costs would be greatly reduced. The house not being
demolished, the soil not removed for sub-surface drainage and the soil from the grading
for the new sanctuary would not end up in the landfill. Traffic would be unaffected. Fire
safety by providing a fire truck turn around would be improved. The creek would flow at
its choosing as creeks do. The riparian corridor would not be changed.

See attached drawing.


Sincerely
George Moestue
Secretary and Treasurer
Thornhill Creekside Neighbors and Friends

6708 Pinehaven Rd.
Oakland, Ca. 94611
510 339-1093
A   P P E N D I X                   D




RESPONSE TO COMMENTS ON
NOTICE OF PREPARATION/INITIAL
STUDY AND SCOPING SESSION




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
RESPONSE TO COMMENTS ON NOTICE OF PREPARA-
TION/INITIAL STUDY AND SCOPING SESSION




The Notice of Preparation (NOP) for the St. John's Church Project EIR was
released on March 8, 2008. Based on the NOP (included in Appendix A), and
the Initial Study (included in Appendix B), comments letters were received
from the following agencies and individuals.

State Agencies
  California Department of Fish and Game
  Regional Agencies
  California Regional Water Quality Control Board-San Francisco Bay Re-
    gion
  East Bay Municipal Utilities District
  Alameda County Congestion Management Agency

Schools
  Thornhill Elementary School

Interest Groups
   Sierra Club
   Thornhill Creekside Neighbors and Friends

Legal Counsel
  Veneruso & Moncharsh

Individuals
   Pamm Drake
   Todd Freter & Roger Saut
   Joanne E. Hill
   Carl Eric Anderson
   Alice I. Youmans & Tyler B. Pon
   Dan J. Brown
   Nancy Havassy
   Marilyn M. Singleton
   George Moestue




                                                                        1
C I T Y O F O A K L A N D
S T . J O H N ' S C H R U C H P R O J E C T D R A F T E I R
R E S P O N S E       T O   C O M M E N T S O N N O T I C E O F   P R E P A R A -
T I O N / I N I T I A L S T U D Y




The City of Oakland Planning Commission held a scoping session on April 2,
2008 to solicit comments from the public and the planning commissioners
regarding the content of the EIR, including environmental issues to be ad-
dressed and the range of alternatives to the project to be evaluated. The fol-
lowing individuals provided verbal comments.

Planning Commissioner
  Ann E. Mudge

Legal Counsel
  Veneruso & Moncharsh

Individuals
   George Moestue
   Nancy Havassy
   Alice I. Youmans
   Todd Freter
   Tyler B. Pon
   Marilyn M. Singleton
   Dan J. Brown

The primary concerns expressed in the comment letters and at the public
scoping session included the need to evaluate aesthetic impacts, land use,
noise, biology, geology and soils and specific provisions of the City's creek
protection ordinance. In particular, concerns were raised about the following
environmental issues:

     Aesthetics. Concerns have been raised about the impacts to visual re-
     sources and the visual character of the project site.

     Effects on biological resources. Concerns have been raised about the
     impacts to plant and animal species within the project site, along Temes-
     cal Creek.




2
                                                      C I T Y O F O A K L A N D
                     S T . J O H N ' S C H R U C H P R O J E C T D R A F T E I R
          R E S P O N S E T O C O M M E N T S O N N O T I C E O F P R E P A R A -
                                                     T I O N / I N I T I A L S T U D Y




  Hydrology. Concerns have been raised about grading the banks of Te-
  mescal Creek, construction of a bridge over the creek, and changing or
  moving the location of the creek.

  Traffic congestion and circulation. Concerns have been raised about
  available parking supply, and the increase in traffic congestion resulting
  from vehicles entering and exiting the project site on Thornhill Road.

Several topic areas including noise, slope stability, and geology were not
evaluated within this EIR as the evaluation within the Initial Study deter-
mined that the project would result in less-than-significant impacts.

Although the Initial Study determined that the project would result in less-
than-significant impacts with respect to aesthetics, due to the concern ex-
pressed in comment letters, an evaluation of aesthetic resources was included
within this EIR.




                                                                                     3
C I T Y O F O A K L A N D
S T . J O H N ' S C H R U C H P R O J E C T D R A F T E I R
R E S P O N S E       T O   C O M M E N T S O N N O T I C E O F   P R E P A R A -
T I O N / I N I T I A L S T U D Y




4
A   P P E N D I X                   E




BIOLOGICAL RESOURCE
CONDITIONS




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
                                                      ENVIRONMENTAL COLLABORATIVE

                                                      Consultation y Documentation y Restoration
                                                      1268 64th Street y Emeryville, CA 94608
                                                      Phone 510/654-4444 y FAX 510/655-4444

MEMORANDUM

TO:            Kyle Simpson
               Design Community & Environment
               1625 Shattuck Avenue, Suite 300
               Berkeley, CA 94709

FROM:          Jim Martin
               ENVIRONMENTAL COLLABORATIVE

DATE:          18 October 2010


SUBJECT:       Biological Resource Conditions
               St. John's Church Site
               Oakland, California



As you requested, I have prepared this memo to provide additional information on existing
biological resources and habitat conditions on the St. John's Church site, and to clarify the
assessment methodology used in preparing the Biological Resources section of the Draft
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) on the project. The proposed project involves a new bridge
crossing over Temescal Creek, demolition of an existing residence and construction of a new
parking lot, and other improvements located further from the creek corridor that are of less
concern from a biological standpoint. A primary concern expressed by staff of the City of
Oakland is the potential impact of the new bridge and other improvements on the creek, and the
associated riparian vegetation and wildlife habitat. The project has gone through a series of
refinements over the past few years in addressing concerns over modifications to the creek, the
direct impacts of the new bridge, anticipated tree loss and effects on shading to the creek, and
appropriate replacement plantings and compensatory mitigation. This memo provides a
description of methodology used in the assessment, together with a summary of existing
conditions on the site. I have reviewed and provided input into the Biological Resource section
of the EIR, which contains a detailed assessment of potential impacts according to the
significance criteria identified in Appendix G of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Guidelines.

BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES

Background and Methods

Biological resources associated with the site were identified through a review of available
background information and field reconnaissance surveys of the site. Available documentation
was reviewed to provide information on general resources in the Montclair area of Oakland,
presence of sensitive natural communities, the distribution and habitat requirements of special-
status species which have been recorded from or are suspected to occur in the project vicinity,
and wildlife habitat values of the site. An initial field reconnaissance survey was conducted by
James Martin, biologist and principal of Environmental Collaborative, on July 27, 2006 to identify
existing conditions, presence of any sensitive habitat features or potentially suitable habitat for
special-status species, and an assessment of wildlife habitat conditions. Detailed protocol
surveys for special-status species were not considered necessary to confirm presence or
absence because of the extent of past disturbance and development on the site and adjacent
lands, the dominance of the creek corridor by non-native invasive species, and the lack of
suitable habitat characteristics necessary to support special-status species. A field visit to the
site was conducted with staff from the City of Oakland and the Regional Water Quality Control
Board on May 28, 2008 during which review and input on the proposed plans at the time were
reviewed. Review of the tree survey data from the updated 2009 Tree Report by HortSciences1
was performed during the subsequent field visit.

Vegetation and Wildlife Habitat Conditions

The site is located in a predominately residential neighborhood in the Montclair area of Oakland.
 Thornhill Drive forms the northwestern boundary of the site. Temescal Creek bisects the
western edge of the site, with and existing residence and poorly maintained landscaped yard on
the south side of the creek, and structures, parking and landscaping around the existing
sanctuary and offices. Existing wildlife habitat is typical of suburban areas, with the creek
providing a source of surface water during the dry summer and fall months and is most likely
attracts terrestrial wildlife to the site reach and other locations of Temescal Creek that are still
accessible. Aquatic habitat values of this reach of the creek are extremely limited given the
shallow depth, lack of emergent vegetation, and dense shade overstory to much of the creek
channel.

Vegetation along the creek corridor is dominated by native and non-native tree plantings, with
an understory of scattered shrubs and open to dense tangle of non-native English ivy (Hedera
helix), periwinkle (Vinca major), and Himalayan blackberry (Rubus discolor). English ivy and
periwinkle form the dominant ground cover over most of the portion of the site along the creek.
With the exception of a few horsetail (Equisetum sp.) plants along an unshaded reach of the
south bank, native groundcover species are completely absent in this reach because of the
dense shade, past disturbance, and competition with the invasive species. Tree species along
this reach of the creek include a single Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii), big-leaf maple
(Acer macrophyllum), coast redwoods (Sequoia sempervirens), coast live oaks (Quercus
agrifolia), wild plums (Prunus sp.), Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), sycamore (Platanus
sp.), Deodar cedar (Cedrus deodara), Monterey pine (Pinus radiata), among others. No
emergent vegetation or aquatic life was observed in the creek channel itself.

Wildlife use in the site vicinity is generally low because of the lack of protective cover and
developed condition in the area. Species typical of urbanized and ruderal habitat occur in the
vicinity, including birds and mammals common in the Montclair area of Oakland. Typical
species observed or suspected include: house finch, house sparrow, mourning dove, northern
mocking bird, pocket gopher, house mouse, Norway rat, and western fence lizard. Raccoon
and opossum most likely forage through locations where protective cover is present. Several
species of raptors most likely occasionally forage in the remaining natural areas on the hillsides,
and may occasionally perch or roost in trees on the site, including Cooper's hawk, red-tailed
hawk, and American kestrel. But no signs of any active raptor nesting or other nests were
observed during the field reconnaissance surveys. The lack of any groundcover and grassland


1 HortScience, 2009, Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church, Oakland, CA, March.
                                                       2
habitat on the site and immediate vicinity limits the importance of the site as even occasional
foraging habitat for raptors. Suitable foraging habitat for burrowing owl is absent, and no
evidence of nesting by other species of raptors was observed during the field reconnaissance
surveys, and seems unlikely given the intensity of surrounding development. The surface waters
of Temescal Creek are most likely an attractive source of drinking water to deer and other
terrestrial wildlife common in the area, but no aquatic life was observed within the creek itself,
as noted above. The concrete box culvert and drop structure immediately upstream from the
site precludes use of the creek channel bottom and banks as a continuous movement corridor
for both terrestrial and aquatic species, and Temescal Creek enters a culvert downstream of the
site as Alhambra Road, about 80 feet downstream of the St. John's Church reach. Major drop
structures and the dam at Lake Temescal preclude this segment of Temescal Creek being used
by anadromous fish such as steelhead in the future.

Special-Status Species

Review of records maintained by the California Natural Diversity Data Base (CNDDB) indicate
that a number of special-status plant and animal species have been reported from the
surrounding area of Oakland and the Berkeley Hills. Special-status species are plants and
animals that are legally protected under the state and/or federal Endangered Species Acts or
other regulations, as well as other species that are considered rare enough by the scientific
community and trustee agencies to warrant special consideration, particularly with regard to
protection of isolated populations, nesting or denning locations, communal roosts and other
essential habitat. Species with legal protection under the Endangered Species Acts often
represent major constraints to development, particularly when they are wide ranging or highly
sensitive to habitat disturbance and where proposed development would result in a "take" of
these species.

Figure 1 shows the known distribution of sensitive natural communities and special-status plant
and animal occurrences within about two miles of the site. No sensitive natural communities
recognized by the CNDDB have been reported from the site or occur on the property based on
the field inspection conducted in July of 2006, and followup site visits. The CNDDB records
show a general occurrence of fragrant fritillary (Fritillaria liliacea) extending to the edge of the
site vicinity, but no other occurrences have specifically been reported from the site.

Numerous special-status plant species are known from the Oakland Hills, such as Diablo
helianthella (Helianthella castenea), robust monardella (Monardella villosa ssp globosa), Santa
Cruz tarplant (Holocarpha macradenia), western leatherwood (Dirca occidentalis), bent-flowered
fiddleneck (Amsinkia lunaris), pallid manzanita (Arctostaphylos pallida), most-beautiful jewel-
flower (Streptanthus albidus ssp. peramoenus), alkali milk-vetch (Astragalus tener var. tener),
Persidio clarkia (Clarkia franciscana), and fragrant fritillary. These species have varied legal
status, and most are considered rare in California (list 1B) by the CNPS. The closest known
occurrence is for western leatherwood, which occurs in the hillsides further up the watershed.
However, the extent of past disturbance of the site from grading, landscaping, and spread of
invasive groundcover species precludes the occurrence of any special-status plant species
along the Temescal Creek corridor on the site.

Special-status animal species known or suspected from the Oakland Hills include: Alameda
whipsnake (Masticophis lateralis euryxanthus), California red-legged frog (Rana aurora
draytonii), Berkeley kangaroo rat (Dipodomys heermanni berkeleyensis), bay checkerspot
butterfly (Euphydryes editha bayensis), callippe silverspot butterfly (Speyeria callippe callippee),
monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus), northwestern pond turtle (Clemmys marmorata), and

                                                 3
several species of raptors and bats. Suitable habitat for special-status animal species is
generally absent from the site due to the extent of past disturbance, surrounding development
and human activity, and the absence of conditions necessary to support these species. This
includes absence of freshwater marsh and riparian habitat necessary for breeding by California
red-legged frog, native grassland and scrub habitat necessary to support Berkeley kangaroo rat,
native serpentine grassland and larval host plant species for bay checkerspot butterfly, native
grassland with larval host plant species for callippe silverspot butterfly, scrub/chaparral habitat
with sunning areas and prey species necessary to support Alameda whipsnake, eucalyptus
necessary to support overwintering areas for monarch butterfly, and nesting/roosting habitat for
raptors and bats. Steelhead (Oncorhynchus kisutch) were historically known from the streams
of the East Bay, and Temescal Creek most likely once served as habitat for native runs of this
federally-threatened species. But downstream culverts, drop structures, and the dam at
Temescal Lake preclude this species and northwestern pond turtle from migrating this far up
Temescal Creek.

One species of particular concern in creek habitats is the potential for occurrence of the
federally-threatened California red-legged frog. According to the CNNDB, an occurrence of
California red-legged frog has been identified about half a mile east of the site, reported from
"Thornhill Pond" sometime in the 1940's. It is unknown whether a population of California red-
legged frog still occurs in that pond, which is on private property. The creek across the site may
have previously served as a dispersal corridor for this species when accessible breeding habitat
once occurred downstream and would have encouraged individuals to move along the creek
corridor. However, suitable habitat for this species is generally absent on the site given the
absence of emergent vegetation, native willow cover, or pools suitable for breeding. The
intervening reach of Temescal Creek between this 1940's-reported occurrence and the site has
been extensively developed, with segments of creek having been culverted above and below
the site. Heavy predation by raccoons most likely precludes the survival of any dispersing
California red-legged frogs that may be dispersing from the historic occurrence, if the population
remains intact. A preconstruction survey by a qualified biologist would ensure that any
dispersing California red-legged frogs are avoided and protected in the remote instance that
one were to move through the project reach of the creek during construction.

Jurisdictional Waters

Although definitions vary to some degree, wetlands are generally considered to be areas that
are periodically or permanently inundated by surface or ground water, and support vegetation
adapted to life in saturated soil. Wetlands are recognized as important features on a regional
and national level due to their high inherent value to fish and wildlife, use as storage areas for
storm and flood waters, and water recharge, filtration and purification functions.

The California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
(Corps) and California Regional Water Quality Control Boards (RWQCB) have jurisdiction over
modifications to wetlands and other "waters of the United States", and the City of Oakland
regulates modifications to creeks under its municipal code. Jurisdiction of the Corps is
established through provisions of Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, which prohibits the
discharge of dredged or fill material without a permit. The RWQCB jurisdiction is established
through Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, which requires certification or waiver to control
discharges in water quality. Jurisdictional authority of the CDFG over wetland areas is
established under Sections 1600 of the State Fish and Game Code, which pertains to activities
that would disrupt the natural flow or alter the channel, bed or bank of any lake, river or stream.
Chapter 13.16 of the City of Oakland Municipal Code establishes a number of guidelines to

                                                 4
protect Oakland's creeks by reducing and controlling stormwater pollution, preserving and
enhancing creekside vegetation and wildlife, and controlling erosion and sedimentation. The
ordinance includes specific measures applicable to parking lots, gas stations, industrial and
commercial activities, as well as to properties that contain creeks. The ordinance includes
provisions that address discharge regulations and requirements as well as inspection and
enforcement.

The open drainage of Temescal Creek qualifies as a regulated jurisdictional waters by the
Corps, RWQCB, CDFG, and City of Oakland. This drainage forms a well defined channel with a
conspicuous Ordinary High Water Mark (OHWM) of about 20 feet in width along this reach of
Temescal Creek. Wetland vegetation is generally absent, although the unvegetated "other
waters of the U.S." are still regulated by jurisdictional agencies. Existing vegetation in the
immediate vicinity of the proposed bridge footprint is characterized by a densely shaded
overstory of mature non-native and native trees, with an understory of non-native English ivy
and periwinkle. No wetland vegetation occurs within the channel bottom in the immediate
vicinity of the proposed bridge footprint.

Proposed bridge, channel bank, and restoration activities may have to secure permit
authorization depending on the extent of channel modifications. If bank stabilization or bridge
abutments extend below the OHWM, or a temporary coffer dam will be required to accomplish
bridge construction, a permit would be required from the Corps under Section 404, and Water
Quality Certification required under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act from the RWQCB. Any
bank modifications, including removal of invasive exotics and replanting with native species,
would require a Streambed Alteration Agreement from CDFG. Conditions of agency
authorizations typically include avoiding impacts to established native vegetation, minimizing
disturbance to in-channel habitat and the potential for sedimentation and water quality
degradation, and providing replacement mitigation to ensure no net loss of habitat functions or
values.

CONCLUSIONS

As currently proposed, the project would include construction of a new bridge crossing to
Temescal Creek, removal of invasive species along the creek corridor, and replanting with
native riparian and upland species, demolition of the existing residence and removal of
associated ornamental landscape plantings, construction of a new parking lot, and replacement
landscape plantings throughout the upland portions of the site. The new bridge would be 22
feet wide, and according to the arborist's 2009 Tree Report for the project, an estimated 13
trees would be removed to accommodate the structure. All of these have trunk diameters under
21 inches, and only two are native ­ a coast live oak with an 11 inch trunk diameter at breast
height (DBH) and a twin trunk big leaf maple with a 14 and 13 DBH.

Of the 155 trees mapped on the site 2009 Tree Report, an estimated 66 were recommended for
removal. These include the 13 trees within the construction impact area of the new bridge, and
others to be removed to accommodate new parking and roadway improvements, or because of
their poor condition. Of the 66 trees recommended for removal, 57 qualify as "protected trees"
under the City of Oakland Municipal Code (Title 12, Chapter 36). According to the ordinance, a
tree permit must be obtained to remove coast live oaks measuring 4 inches or greater DBH or to
remove any other tree measuring 9 inches DBH or larger, except Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus sp.)
and Monterey Pine (Pinus radiata) or if any protected tree on the property might be damaged by
construction activity. A total of 19 trees are to be removed to accommodate development and
the remaining were recommended for removal because of their poor condition and unsuitability

                                               5
for preservation. The Tree Report includes "Tree Preservation Guidelines" that should be
adequate to ensure protection of trees to be retained, and replacement plantings would be
required for all trees to be removed, consistent with the City's ordinance. Of the 66 trees to be
removed, 13 or less than 20 percent are native species indigenous to the area (coast live oak
and big leaf maple), all of these are relatively young trees (with trunk diameters under 15 inch
DBH), and most are sapling trees. While the trees on the site do provide perching, foraging and
potential nesting opportunities for birds, most of the mature and important trees in terms of their
habitat functions and values would be preserved. The enhancement native plantings along the
Temescal Creek corridor and replacement tree plantings throughout the site required for
conformance with the City's ordinance would serve to address the impact of proposed tree
removal on existing wildlife habitat values of the site. Wildlife would continue to have access
along the creek channel bottom and across the new roadway and no major disruption of wildlife
movement opportunities is anticipated given the upstream and downstream culverts.

The Temescal Creek channel is a regulated waters, and any modifications to this feature will
most likely require authorization from several agencies, including the Corps, RWQCB, CDFG,
and the City of Oakland. Adequate controls must be taken to prevent degradation of
downstream receiving waters during construction and revegetation through implementation of
Best Management Practices (BMPs) defined as part of the Restoration Plans and the required
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. Conditions associated with authorization from
jurisdictional agencies will ensure adequate protection of existing resources and appropriate
replacement and enhancement of existing habitat values.

Construction of the new bridge would require removal of 13 trees and the non-native
groundcover within the footprint of the structure and roadway, would result in short-term
disturbance to the creek channel and associated aquatic habitat during construction, and would
result in permanent shading to a portion of the currently open creek corridor. The estimated 13
trees removed in the vicinity of the bridge consist of a single native coast live oak with a trunk
diameter of 12 inches and a single native big leaf maple with a trunk diameter 12 inches. The
remaining 11 tree species consisting of non-native cherry plum, common yew, and Deodar
cedar, and non-indigenous coast redwood, and Douglas fir which were also planted as part of
the ornamental landscaping along the creek corridor and yard of the existing residence at 5928
Thornhill Drive. Non-native English ivy and periwinkle are the only groundcover species on this
reach of the creek channel, and affected wildlife habitat values are relatively low because of the
dominance by non-native species, limited foraging opportunities, and dense shade. Bridge
construction would most likely require dewatering of the construction reach through installation
of a coffer dam, together with use of mechanical equipment during construction of the bridge
abutments and structure. However, adherence to BMPs defined as part of the Restoration
Plans and the required Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, together with any additional
conditions specified as part of the agency permit authorizations would serve to prevent any
significant impacts on water quality and limited aquatic habitat associated with this reach of the
creek.

Based on the shadow study conducted as part of the CEQA document, an estimated 476
square feet under the bridge would be so continuously shaded that it would not support native
replacement plantings. While the creek channel area encompassed by the bridge footprint has
only limited habitat value, bridge construction would permanently eliminate any potential for
future restoration or revegetation within the approximately 476 square foot area. Dense shading
from overstory trees and the extensive ground cover of English ivy currently prevents the growth
of any native understory vegetation within the existing footprint of the proposed bridge.
Although the existing habitat values of the affected reach of the creek corridor of low, the

                                                6
permanent loss of even 476 square feet of low quality habitat dominated by non-native species
would be considered a significant impact. The proposed removal of invasive exotics and native
enhancement plantings would serve to partially address this permanent loss of existing habitat.
However, off-site mitigation would be required to provide a minimum 1:1 replacement for the
permanent loss of 476 square feet of riparian habitat.


Removal of invasive exotics and replanting of the creek corridor would generally serve to
improve existing habitat values of the riparian corridor on the site, but compensatory mitigation
would be required for the permanent loss of approximately 476 square feet of low quality
riparian habitat. Options for achieving this off-site mitigation requirements consist of either:

       1)      Preparing and implementing an off-site creek restoration program funded by the
               applicant that would serve to restore a minimum of 476 square feet of currently
               culverted creek corridor in Oakland. The program would be developed by a
               qualified creek restoration specialist that meets with the approval of the City,
               CDFG, RWQCB, and Corps, and secures any required permits as part of
               program implementation. The off-site restoration program shall specify
               performance criteria, maintenance and long-term management responsibilities,
               monitoring requirements, and contingency measures. Monitoring shall be
               conducted by the qualified creek restoration specialist for a minimum of five
               years and continue until the identified success criteria are met.
       2)      Having the applicant make an in-lieu contribution to cover the costs of restoring a
               minimum of 476 square feet of riparian habitat at an off-site location as specified
               by the City of Oakland.


No impacts on special-status species are anticipated due to the lack of suitable habitat. A
preconstruction survey by a qualified biologist would ensure that any dispersing California red-
legged frog are avoided and protected in the remote instance that one were to move through the
project reach during construction.

Please feel free to contact me at 510/654-4444 if you have any questions regarding this
updated assessment on the St. John's site.




                                                7
A   P P E N D I X                   F




TREE REPORT




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
        TREE REPORT
St. John's Episcopal Church
                Oakland CA




                  PREPARED FOR
   St. John's Episcopal Church
            1770 Gouldin Road
            Oakland CA 94611


                   PREPARED BY
            HortScience, Inc.
      2150 Rheem Dr., Suite A
        Pleasanton CA 94588


                    March 2009
                                  Tree Report
                           St. John's Episcopal Church
                                   Oakland CA

                                Table of Contents


                                                          Page

Introduction and Overview                                  1

Survey Methods                                             1

Description of Trees                                       2

Suitability for Preservation                               5

Evaluation of Impacts and Recommendations for Action       6

Tree Preservation Guidelines                              14


                                   List of Tables


Table 1. Condition ratings and frequency of occurrence.    4

Table 2. Tree suitability for preservation.                6

Table 3. Recommended action.                               8

                                   Attachments


Tree Survey Forms

Tree Survey Map
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                  HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                              Page 1



Introduction and Overview
St. John's Episcopal Church is planning to construct a new parking area, bridge, landscaping
and other improvements as part of a Phase I development within the Montclair Village of the
City of Oakland. Current site use includes an existing sanctuary, office, parking, landscaping,
and a house located at 5928 Thornhill Drive. Temescal Creek borders the site on the west.
There are existing trees on the site. HortScience, Inc. was asked to prepare a Tree Report as
part of the approval process to the City of Oakland.

This report provides the following information:

    1.   A survey of trees within and adjacent to the proposed project area.
    2.   An evaluation of the condition of each tree included in the survey.
    3.   An assessment of the impacts of constructing the proposed project on the trees.
    4.   Guidelines for tree preservation during the design and construction phases of
         development for trees eligible for preservation.

Survey Methods
Trees were surveyed on September 3 and 11, 2008. The survey included coast live oaks 4"
and greater in diameter and other species 9" and larger in diameter. The survey procedure
consisted of the following steps:

         1. Identifying the tree as to species;
         2. Tagging each tree with an identifying number or letter and recording its location on
            a map. The existing numbering system established by PGA Design Inc. was used;
         3. Measuring the trunk diameter at a point 54" above grade;
         4. Evaluating the health and structural condition using a scale of 1 ­ 5:
             5 - A healthy, vigorous tree, reasonably free of signs and symptoms of disease,
                  with good structure and form typical of the species.
             4 - Tree with slight decline in vigor, small amount of twig dieback, minor structural
                  defects that could be corrected.
             3 - Tree with moderate vigor, moderate twig and small branch dieback, thinning of
                  crown, poor leaf color, moderate structural defects that might be mitigated
                  with regular care.
             2 - Tree in decline, epicormic growth, extensive dieback of medium to large
                  branches, significant structural defects that cannot be abated.
             1 - Tree in severe decline, dieback of scaffold branches and/or trunk; most of
                  foliage from epicormics; extensive structural defects that cannot be abated;
         5. Rating the suitability for preservation as "good", "moderate" or "poor". Suitability for
            preservation considers the health, age and structural condition of the tree, and its
            potential to remain an asset to the site for years to come.

                Good: Trees with good health and structural stability that have the potential
                       for longevity at the site.
             Moderate: Trees with somewhat declining health and/or structural defects than
                       can be abated with treatment. The tree will require more intense
                       management and monitoring, and may have shorter life span than
                       those in `good' category.
                Poor : Tree in poor health or with significant structural defects that cannot be
                       mitigated. Tree is expected to continue to decline, regardless of
                       treatment. The species or individual may have characteristics that are
                       undesirable for landscapes, and generally are unsuited for use areas.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                             HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                         Page 2



Description of Trees
One hundred fifty-five (155) trees were evaluated representing 32 species (Table 1, page 4).
Descriptions of individual trees are found in the Tree Survey and locations are plotted on the
Tree Survey Map (see Attachments). SIx (6) trees (#AL, BK, BL, CI, D and I) were off-site but
were near the property line. One hundred thirty-eight (138) trees met the City's criteria for
"Protected tree"; coast live oaks with a 4" diameter trunk or larger, and any tree with a 9"
diameter trunk or larger.

The most frequently occurring species was coast live oak with 50 trees (32%). Plum with 16
trees (10%), coast redwood with 15 trees (10%), and apple with 11 trees (7%) were also
present. The remaining 28 species were represented by five or fewer trees. The coast live
oaks, coast redwoods, a bigleaf maple and a Fremont cottonwood are native to the Oakland
area and maybe indigenous to the site. The remaining species were planted exotics. Tree size
ranged from 4" to 67" diameter for single-trunked trees. Fifty-seven (57) trees had multiple
trunks.

Coast live oaks were scattered
throughout the site, but the
majority were concentrated
near the existing parking lot
and entrance at Gouldin Rd.
The oaks varied from young to
mature in development.
Condition was almost evenly
divided between trees that
were good and fair. Trees in                                     Photo 2
good condition had good form
and structure, and a full crown                                       Photo 1, left. Example of a
(photo 1). Trees that were fair                                       coast live oak, (#J), in good
were characterized by leans,                                                             condition.
thin canopies, suppressed          Photo 1
form, and branch dieback.                                         Photo 2, above. Oaks mostly in
Trees in poor condition were in decline, had sparse canopies          fair-poor condition w/ lean,
and more extensive branch dieback (photo 2).                        suppressed form and branch
                                                                    dieback due to tight spacing.
Coast redwoods were largely located on
the 5928 Thornhill Dr. parcel, Temescal
Creek, and the south side of the sanctuary
building. Redwoods were semi-mature to
mature in form and character, and were
mostly in good condition (photo 3). Trees
that were good had full crowns and good
form. Some had multiple stems that arose
several feet above ground that were fused
together (photo 4). Trees in fair condition
had narrow small crowns, suppressed
form, and were either-side pruned or
topped for utility lines. No redwoods were
poor. Redwood #B was the largest tree          Photo 3. Redwood #E         Photo 4. Redwood #B
surveyed with a 67" diameter trunk.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                            Page 3



Plums and apples were present at 5928
Thornhill Dr. in an orchard-like planting
(photo 4). The fruit trees were young to
semi-mature in their growth. Plums were
about evenly divided between trees in fair
and poor condition. Trees in fair condition
had thinning crowns, branch dieback,
epicormic sprouts and included bark
between attachments. Those in poor
condition had poor form and structure,
suppressed crowns, and greater branch
dieback. Apples were largely in fair
condition with an upright form, a low
canopy, and included bark between                 Photo 4
attachments. Most showed symptoms of
fireblight, a bacterial disease.                    Photo 4 above. Mixed orchard of plums and
                                                                apples in fair to poor condition.
Among the remaining species three
significant trees stood out. All were in good condition.

    Deodar cedar #D was located offsite, near the property
    line west of the sanctuary. It had a 36" diameter trunk
    and a good pyramidal form that is characteristic of the
    species (photo 5).

    London plane #K was located east of Temescal Creek
    near the top of the bank. The plane tree had an open
    spreading form, high crown and a 27" diameter trunk.

    Canary Island pine #L was located south of the house
    at 5928 Thornhill Dr. It had good form and structure,                            #75
    full crown and a 32" diameter trunk (photo 6).




                                                                 Photo 5. Deodar cedar #D




                 Photo 6. Canary Island pine #L
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                             HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                         Page 4



            Table 1: Condition ratings and frequency of occurrence of trees.

Common Name            Scientific Name                 Condition Rating          No. of
                                                      Good Fair      Poor        Trees
                                                      (4-5)    (3)   (1-2)


Ovens wattle           Acacia pravissma                --      1       --          1
Bigleaf maple          Acer macrophyllum               --      1       --          1
Japanese maple         Acer palmatum                   1       --      --          1
Red horse chestnut     Aesculus x carnea               3       --      --          3
Incense cedar          Calocedrus decurrens            1       3       1           5
Deodar cedar           Cedrus deodara                  1       1       1           3
English hawthorn       Crataegus laevigata             --      2       --          2
Japanese cryptomeria   Cryptomeria japonica            --      --      1           1
Smooth cypress         Cupressus glabra                1       --      --          1
Monterey cypress       Cupressus macrocarpa            1       --      --          1
Loquat                 Eriobotrya japonica             --      1       --          1
Hollywood juniper      Juniperus chinensis `Torulosa' 1        --      --          1
Glossy privet          Ligustrum lucidum               --      --      5           5
Saucer magnolia        Magnolia soulangeana            1       --      --          1
Apple                  Malus domestica                 3       8       --         11
Canary Island pine     Pinus canariensis               1       --      --          1
Monterey pine          Pinus radiata                   --      7       1           8
London plane           Platanus x acerifolia           1       --      --          1
Fremont cottonwood     Populus fremontii               1       1       --          2
Cherry                 Prunus avium                    --      3       1           4
Purple-leaf plum       Prunus x blireiana              --      1       --          1
Plum                   Prunus domestica                --      6      10          16
English laurel         Prunus laurocerasus             1       3       1           5
Douglas-fir            Pseudotsuga menziesii           1       2       --          3
Pyracantha             Pyracantha coccinea             --      --      1           1
Coast live oak         Quercus agrifolia              17      22      11          50
Coast redwood          Sequoia sempervirens           10       5       --         15
Giant sequoia          Sequoiadendron giganteum        --      3       --          3
Irish yew              Taxus baccata `Stricta'         2       --      --          2
American elm           Ulmus americana                 --      3       --          3
Chinese elm            Ulmus parvifolia                --      --      1           1
Unknown                                                --      --      1           1

Total                                                 47      73       35        155
                                                      30%     47%      23%       100%
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                  HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                              Page 5



Suitability for Preservation
Before evaluating the impacts that will occur during development, it is important to consider the
quality of the tree resource itself, and the potential for individual trees to function well over an
extended length of time. Trees that are preserved on development sites must be carefully
selected to make sure that they may survive development impacts, adapt to a new environment
and perform well in the landscape.

Our goal is to identify trees that have the potential for long-term health, structural stability and
longevity. For trees growing in open fields, away from areas where people and property are
present, structural defects and/or poor health presents a low risk of damage or injury if they fail.
However, we must be concerned about safety in use areas. Therefore, where development
encroaches into existing plantings, we must consider their structural stability as well as their
potential to grow and thrive in a new environment. Where development will not occur, the
normal life cycles of decline, structural failure and death should be allowed to continue.

Evaluation of suitability for preservation considers several factors:
    Tree health
        Healthy, vigorous trees are better able to tolerate impacts such as root injury,
        demolition of existing structures, changes in soil grade and moisture, and soil
        compaction than are non-vigorous trees.

        Structural integrity
        Trees with significant amounts of wood decay and other structural defects that cannot
        be corrected are likely to fail. Such trees should not be preserved in areas where
        damage to people or property is likely.

        Species response
        There is a wide variation in the response of individual species to construction impacts
        and changes in the environment. In our experience, for example, Fremont cottonwood
        and Monterey cypress have a poor tolerance to construction impacts. Monterey pine
        and incense cedar have a moderate tolerance to construction activities. Coast live oak
        and coast redwood have a good tolerance to site disturbance.

        Tree age and longevity
        Old trees, while having significant emotional and aesthetic appeal, have limited
        physiological capacity to adjust to an altered environment. Young trees are better able
        to generate new tissue and respond to change.

        Species invasiveness
        Species which spread across a site and displace desired vegetation are not always
        appropriate for retention. This is particularly true when indigenous species are
        displaced. Plum and glossy privet have the potential to spread across the site.

Each tree was rated for suitability for preservation based upon its age, health, structural
condition and ability to safely coexist within a development environment (Table 2). We
consider trees with good suitability for preservation to be the best candidates for preservation.
We do not recommend retention of trees with poor suitability for preservation in areas where
people or property will be present. Retention of trees with moderate suitability for preservation
depends upon the intensity of proposed site changes.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                            Page 6



                         Table 2: Tree Suitability for Preservation

     Good           These are trees with good health and structural stability that have the
                    potential for longevity at the site. Thirty-two (32) trees were rated as
                    having good suitability for preservation including 11 coast live oaks, 8
                    coast redwoods and 3 red horse chestnuts.


 Moderate           Trees in this category have fair health and/or structural defects that may be
                    abated with treatment. Trees in this category require more intense
                    management and monitoring, and may have shorter life-spans than those
                    in the "good" category. Seventy-two (72) trees were rated as having
                    moderate suitability for preservation including 27 coast live oaks, 6 coast
                    redwoods, 5 plums, 5 Monterey pines, 3 American elm and 3 incense
                    cedars.


      Poor          Trees in this category are in poor health or have significant defects in
                    structure that cannot be abated with treatment. These trees can be
                    expected to decline regardless of management. The species or individual
                    tree may possess either characteristics that are undesirable in landscape
                    settings or be unsuited for use areas. Fifty-one (51) trees were rated as
                    having low suitability for preservation including 12 coast live oaks, 11 plum,
                    7 apple, 5 glossy privet and 3 Monterey pines.



Evaluation of Impacts and Recommendations for Action
Appropriate tree retention develops a practical match between the location and intensity of
construction activities and the quality and health of trees. The Tree Survey Form was the
reference point for tree condition and quality. Potential impacts from construction were
evaluated using the Demolition, Site and Landscape Plans by PGD designs (August 8, 2008
and October 17, 2008), and the Grading, Drainage, Paving and Bridge plans by Sandis
Engineers (September 2, 2007).

The plan depicted the proposed new parking area, bridge, utilities, landscaping and other
improvements for the Phase I development. Tree locations, trunk elevations and driplines were
shown on the plans.

Impacts to trees will occur in several ways. Demolition of existing site improvements such as
the house, carport, concrete, and hidden features may damage both tree roots and crowns.
Providing access for construction equipment may require pruning of tree crowns. Excavation
and grading to construct the proposed parking area, bridge, utilities, and landscaping may
damage tree roots both directly through mechanical injury, and indirectly by altering soil
structure, drainage, and biology.

Potential impacts from construction were assessed for each tree. The most significant impacts
to the trees would occur from the demolition, grading and construction for parking, the bridge,
underground utilities, and hardscape.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                  HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                              Page 7



Based upon my evaluation of the Plans, I recommend that 89 trees be considered eligible for
preservation, eighty-one (81) of which were "Protected trees' (Table 3, next page). Three trees
(#BH, DA and DK) are recommended for preservation, but have poor suitability for
preservation. These trees are away from construction, proposed use areas and can be
retained for screening value. Preservation of these trees is predicated on the impacts being
within the tolerances of the trees and on the implementations of specific recommendations in
the Tree Preservation Guidelines. If the recommendations in the Tree Preservation
Guidelines cannot be followed, or there are unexpected changes in construction related to
grading, utility conflicts and location of improvements selected trees may require removal.

I recommend removal of the remaining sixty-five (65) trees including fifty-six (56) "Protected
trees' (Table 3, next page). Forty-seven (47) trees (72%) would be removed because of their
poor suitability for preservation. Good management practices would dictate selective tree
removal to eliminate weaker trees, trees in poor condition and to reduce competition for more
desirable trees. Nineteen (18) trees (28%) would be removed due to development impacts.
Twenty-six (26) trees (40%) were fruit trees.

Six trees rated suitable for preservation had defects in their structure that warrant further
evaluation. I recommend the following evaluation for the trees.

            Coast live oak #AO --Decay evaluation in lower trunk.

            Coast live oak #AU --Aerial inspection and decay evaluation in trunk.

            Monterey pines #DL, DM and DN --Consult with geotechnical engineer as trees
            may be in a slide area. There was evidence that at least one pine had uprooted
            and several had been removed. Based on discussion with engineer a decision can
            be made to remove the trees if soil is unstable, or preserve trees if soil is
            determined to be stable, pending an aerial inspection and root collar excavation.

            Coast live oak #F --Aerial inspection and decay evaluation in pruning wounds.

            Coast live oak #Q --Aerial inspection, decay evaluation in pruning wounds, and
            root collar excavation.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                           HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                       Page 8



         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species              Trunk         Action       Comments
                               Diameter
                                 (in.)
1          Incense cedar       18,9,7,6       Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
2          Coast live oak          11         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
3          Incense cedar           21         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
4          Incense cedar           18         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
5          Douglas-fir             20         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
6          Pyracantha            7,2,2        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
7          Bigleaf maple         14,13        Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway and bridge.
9          Unknown                            Remove       Poor suitability for preservation;
                                                           high stump.
10         Coast redwood           12         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           bridge.
11         Plum                    10         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           bridge.
12         Plum                   10          Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
15         Cherry                  9          Remove       Dead.
20         Incense cedar         21,21        Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
21         Hollywood juniper       14         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
24         Deodar cedar            13         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
25         Plum                   10,6        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
26         English laurel         8,6,5       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
27         American elm            16         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
28         American elm            15         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
29         American elm            14         Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
30         Plum                    6,5        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
31         Plum                   8,4.4       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
32         Apple                   5,4        Remove       Development impacts; landscape
                                                           treatment.
33         Apple                  4,4,4       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
34         Apple                  6,3,3       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
35         Apple                  3,3,3       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
36         Apple                   6,3        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
37         Cherry                 4,4,4       Remove       Development impacts; in
                                                           pathway.
                                  (continued, next page)
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                           HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                       Page 9




         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species              Trunk         Action       Comments
                               Diameter
                                 (in.)
38         Plum                   4,2         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
39         Loquat                 5,3         Remove       Development impacts; landscape
                                                           treatment.
40         Plum                 4,3,2,2,2     Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
41         Plum                    7,4        Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
42         Apple                  5,4,3       Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           driveway.
43         Plum                  4,4,3,3      Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
44         Plum                    6,3        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
45         Apple                  5,4,3       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
46         Apple                   6,5        Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
47         Apple                8,8,6,6       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
48         Apple                10,7,6,4      Remove       Development impacts; Thornhill
                                                           parking.
49         Apple                  5,3,2       Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
50         Monterey pine           20         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
51         Coast live oak           8         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
52         Coast live oak           7         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
53         Hawthorne               4,4        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
54         Plum                     9         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
55         Monterey pine           15         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
56         Plum                    9,8        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
57         Glossy privet        3,3,2,2,2     Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
58         Glossy privet      3,3,3,2,2,2,2   Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
59         Glossy privet         3,3,2,2      Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
60         Glossy privet           7,6        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
61         Chinese elm              7         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
62         Hawthorne                6         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
63         Glossy privet         4,3,2,2      Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
64         Coast live oak           4         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
65         Coast live oak           6         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
66         Coast live oak         10,6        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
67         Coast live oak          5,5        Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
68         Coast live oak           8         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
69         Coast live oak           5         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
70         Coast live oak           7         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
71         Crytomeria              13         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
72         Monterey pine           28         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
73         Douglas-fir             20         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
74         Coast live oak          10         Remove       Poor suitability for preservation.
75         Coast live oak          14         Preserve     Development impacts; west of
                                                           existing parking lot.
                                  (continued, next page)
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                           HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                      Page 10




         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species               Trunk        Action       Comments
                                Diameter
                                  (in.)
A          Coast redwood           42        Preserve      Located north of circular
                                                           driveway.
AA         Coast live oak          14        Preserve      Located on slope east of circular
                                                           driveway.
AC         Coast live oak          15        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AF         Coast live oak          15        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AG         Coast live oak          11        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AI         Coast live oak         10,6       Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AJ         Coast live oak          8         Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AK         Coast live oak          7         Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AL         Coast live oak          20        Preserve      Located offsite west of
                                                           sanctuary.
AN         Coast live oak          10        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AO         Coast live oak       24,20,20     Preserve      Located west of existing parking.
AP         Coast live oak         10,9       Preserve      Located west of existing parking.
AR         Coast live oak           9        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
AT         Coast live oak          19        Preserve      Located west of existing parking.
AU         Coast live oak          28        Preserve      Located next to sanctuary, east
                                                           side.
AV         Red horse chestnut      17        Preserve      Located near sanctuary, east
                                                           side.
AW         Red horse chestnut      20        Preserve      Located near sanctuary, east
                                                           side.
AX         Red horse chestnut      9         Preserve      Located near sanctuary, east
                                                           side.
AY         Coast live oak          15        Preserve      Located between sanctuary and
                                                           parking, east side.
AZ         Cherry                  7,4       Preserve      Located between sanctuary and
                                                           parking, east side.
B          Coast redwood           67        Preserve      Located north of circular
                                                           driveway.
BB         Saucer magnolia      6,6,6,4,3    Preserve      Located between sanctuary and
                                                           parking, east side.
BD         Coast redwood           36        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                           parking near pathway.
BE         Cherry                  9         Preserve      Located south of Thornhill
                                                           parking.
                                  (continued, next page)
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                              HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                         Page 11




         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species                 Trunk         Action       Comments
                                  Diameter
                                    (in.)
BG         English laurel           8,6,6       Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                              parking and bridge.
BH         English laurel             6         Preserve      Poor suitability for preservation;
                                                              saved for screening; north of
                                                              Thornhill parking and bridge.
BI         English laurel            8,8        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                              parking near pathway.
BJ         English laurel     9,7,7,6,5,5,4,4,4,3 Preserve    Located north of Thornhill
                                                              parking near pathway.
BK         Coast live oak            19         Preserve      Located west of existing parking.
BL         Purple leaf plum          16         Preserve      Located west of existing parking.
BR         Coast redwood             32         Preserve      Located west of Temescal
                                                              Creek.
BV         Douglas-fir               14         Preserve      Located next to sanctuary, west
                                                              side.
BW         Plum                      9,5        Preserve      Located west of sanctuary near
                                                              existing parking.
BX         Plum                     10,8,8      Preserve      Located west of sanctuary near
                                                              existing parking area.
BY         Japanese maple           10,9        Preserve      Located next to sanctuary, west
                                                              side.
C          Coast redwood             26         Preserve      Located north of circular
                                                              driveway.
CA         Plum                      6,5        Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                              parking.
CB         Monterey pine             24         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CC         Monterey pine             27         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CD         Giant sequoia             19         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CE         Giant sequoia             30         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CF         Giant sequoia              7         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CG         Fremont cottonwood        15         Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek.
CH         Monterey cypress          18         Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                              entrance.
CI         Incense cedar             18         Preserve      Located offsite north of Thornhill
                                                              entrance.
CL         Coast live oak             5         Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                              parking.
CM         Ovens wattle              10         Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                              parking.
CN         Coast live oak           20,18       Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                              parking.
CP         Coast live oak         14,14,12      Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                              parking.
                                     (continued, next page)
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                        HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                   Page 12




         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species               Trunk        Action    Comments
                                Diameter
                                  (in.)
CQ         Coast live oak          10        Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
CT         Coast live oak          13        Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
CU         Coast live oak          8         Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
CV         Coast live oak          10        Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
CW         Coast live oak          6         Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
CZ         Coast live oak          10        Preserve   Located on slope east of existing
                                                        parking.
D          Deodar cedar            36        Preserve   Located offsite west of sanctuary
                                                        near existing parking.
DA         Coast redwood 40,18,14,13,11,10,7 Preserve   Poor suitability for preservation;
                                                        saved for screening; located
                                                        under utility lines Gouldin Rd.
DB         Coast live oak          8         Preserve   Located near Gouldin Rd.
DC         Coast live oak         12,6       Preserve   Located at entrance from
                                                        Gouldin Rd.
DD         Coast live oak           9        Preserve   Located at Gouldin Rd. entrance.
DE         Coast live oak          22        Preserve   Located near Gouldin Rd.
DF         Coast live oak           8        Preserve   Located west of entrance from
                                                        Gouldin Rd.
DG         Coast live oak          8,3       Preserve   Located west of entrance from
                                                        Gouldin Rd.
DH         Plum                   5,5,5      Preserve   Located west of entrance from
                                                        Gouldin Rd.
DI         Coast live oak          9         Preserve   Located west of entrance from
                                                        Gouldin Rd.
DJ         Coast live oak        16,13       Preserve   Located on slope south of
                                                        sanctuary and existing parking.
DK         Coast live oak          6         Preserve   Poor suitability for preservation;
                                                        saved for screening; located on
                                                        slope south of sanctuary and
                                                        existing parking.
DL         Monterey pine           27        Preserve   Located on slope south of
                                                        sanctuary and existing parking.
DM         Monterey pine           27        Preserve   Located on slope south of
                                                        sanctuary and existing parking.
DN         Monterey pine           11        Preserve   Located on slope south of
                                                        sanctuary and existing parking.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                           HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                      Page 13



                                  (continued, next page)




         Table 3: Recommended action. St. John's Episcopal Church. Oakland CA.

Tree #     Species               Trunk        Action       Comments
                                Diameter
                                  (in.)

DO         Irish yew               9         Preserve      Located south of Thornhill
                                                           parking.
DP         Coast live oak          21        Preserve      Located west of circular
                                                           driveway.
E          Coast redwood           32        Preserve      Located west of circular
                                                           driveway.
F          Coast live oak          25        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                           parking and pathway.
H          Coast redwood           61        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                           parking near pathway.
I          Irish yew              multi      Preserve      Located offsite west of sanctuary
                                                           near existing parking.
J          Coast live oak          35        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                           parking near pathway.
K          London plane            27        Preserve      Located north of Thornhill
                                                           parking and bridge.
L          Canary Island pine      32        Preserve      Located south of Thornhill
                                                           parking.
M          Fremont cottonwood      36        Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek
                                                           and south of bridge.
N          Deodar cedar            16        Preserve      Located east of Temescal Creek
                                                           and south of bridge.
O          Coast redwood          22,7       Preserve      Located west of Temescal Creek
                                                           and south of bridge.
P          Coast redwood           27        Preserve      Located west of Temescal Creek
                                                           and south of bridge.
Q          Coast live oak          23        Preserve      Located south of Thornhill
                                                           parking.
T          Coast redwood           28        Preserve      Located west of Temescal
                                                           Creek.
U          Coast redwood           15        Preserve      Located west of Temescal
                                                           Creek.
V          Coast redwood           30        Preserve      Located west of Temescal
                                                           Creek.
X          Coast redwood           56        Preserve      Located south of Thornhill
                                                           parking.
Y          Smooth cypress          7         Preserve      Located on slope east of existing
                                                           parking.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                           Page 14




Tree Preservation Guidelines
The goal of tree preservation is not merely tree survival during development but maintenance
of tree health and beauty for many years. Trees retained on sites that are either subject to
extensive injury during construction or are inadequately maintained become a liability rather
than an asset. The response of individual trees will depend on the amount of excavation and
grading, the care with which demolition is undertaken, and the construction methods.
Coordinating any construction activity inside the TREE PROTECTION ZONE can minimize these
impacts.

The following recommendations will help reduce impacts to trees from development and
maintain and improve their health and vitality through the clearing, grading and construction
phases.

Design recommendations
   1. Tree Preservation Guidelines, prepared by the Consulting Arborist, should be
       included on all plans.

    2. Any changes to the plans affecting the trees should be reviewed by the consulting
       arborist with regard to tree impacts. These include, but are not limited to, improvement
       plans, utility and drainage plans, grading plans, lighting, landscape and irrigation plans,
       and demolition.

    3. Sheets L1-1 &2-1 Site and Planting Plan, and C2.1 Grading, Drainage and Paving
       Plan:
       a. Tree #A, B, C, E, H, F, J, K, L, M, N, Q, T, U, V, X, AO, AP, AT, BK, BR, CB, CC,
           CD, CE, CF, CG, CH, DP--Eliminate planting and irrigation within 10' of trees.
       b. Tree #O--Bridge foundation and piers, driveway and walkway should be at least 9'
           north and west of tree.
       c. Tree #X--Maintain existing grade within dripline of tree. Transition grade with use
           of pier and grade beam retaining wall with beam just above existing grade. Locate
           wall no closer than dripline.
       d. Tree #BD and H--Construct pathway on top of existing grade or limit depth of
           excavation to a maximum of 4" below existing grade
       e. Tree #BE and DO--Eliminate planting and irrigation within 5' of tree.
       f. Tree #BI--Reduce width of DG pathway to maximum 5'. Construct pathway on top
           of existing grade or limit depth of excavation to a maximum of 4" below existing
           grade.
       g. Tree #BV--Relocate accent tree a minimum of 10' south of #BV.
       h. Tree #BY--Keep concrete walkway at least 3' south of trunk.
       i. Tree #CH--Keep driveway at least 10' south of trunk.
       j. Tree #DP--Maintain edge of circular driveway no closer then 7' east of trunk and
           10' south of trunk. Transition grade with use of pier and grade beam retaining wall
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                  HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                             Page 15



            with beam just above existing grade. Eliminate fill soil and maintain existing grade
            within planting area between driveway and pathway.
       k.   Bridge--Design the foundation, structural members and piers with the least
            amount of soil disturbance to reduce impacts on trees.
       l.   Lighting--Bollard lights and down lights in trees were shown on the plans. Keep
            bollard lights, splice boxes and conduits 10' from existing trees where possible.
            Consider changing down lights in trees to up lights or bollard lights to reduce
            impacts (eg. root system and attachment to trunk) to trees.

   4. All grading shall be withheld to outside the TREE PROTECTION ZONE (next page). Minor
      grading by hand to provide proper drainage, for landscaping and walkways may be
      acceptable, if approved by the Consulting Arborist. Design grading plan so that water
      drains away from the trunk.

   5. Design the Thornhill Dr. driveway and parking area (Sheet C4.1 pervious pavement
      detail #6) to require the minimum amount of cuts and fills to reduce impacts to tree
      roots. Scarification of subgrade to a minimum depth of 12" was shown. Consider the
      use of geotextile fabric to possibly reduce grading, scarification and amount of
      compaction.

   6. Design the utility plan (eg. wet and dry utilities, electrical, including irrigation, low
      voltage wiring and landscape lighting) such that they are located outside the TREE
      PROTECTION ZONE (next page), to the extent possible. Specify by note on the plans the
      following: if roots 2" and larger are encountered leave the root in place and thread pipe
      under the roots; roots less then 2" in diameter may be pruned clean and square at
      undamaged tissue.

   7. Design walkways within the dripline so that no excavation into the existing grade is
      required, if possible. Walkway and base material shall be placed on top of existing
      grade. Consider the use of geotextile fabric under the walk to avoid compacting the
      soil.

   8. Design new irrigation system so no irrigation lines or components (eg. controller, water
      meter, backflow, valve boxes, wires, heads or quick coupler) are located within 10' of
      the trunk to the extent possible. Where components must be installed 10' from the
      trunk but within the dripline dig the trench by hand, air or water excavation. If roots 2"
      and larger are encountered leave the root in place and thread pipe under the roots;
      roots less then 2" in diameter may be pruned clean and square at undamaged tissue
      Design the system to avoid wetting within 10' from the trunk to the extent possible.

   9. Specify by note on the plans the following: a rototiller or trencher shall not be used
      within 10' of the trunk of an existing tree; rototilling or trenching 10' from the tree to
      edge of dripline shall be limited to a depth of 12".
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                             HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                        Page 16




   10. TREE PROTECTION ZONE shall be established around each tree. No grading, excavation,
       construction, or storage of materials shall occur within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE,
       except as noted above for certain improvements (eg. walkways, fine hand grading,
       landscaping, and irrigation). No underground services including utilities, sub-drains,
       water or sewer shall be placed in the TREE PROTECTION ZONE, except as approved for
       selected utilities. Spoil from trench, footing, utility or other excavation shall not be
       placed within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE, either temporarily or permanently.
       The limits of the TREE PROTECTION ZONE will be adjusted following design changes.
       The tree protection zones shall be defined as follows.

       a. #M, N, P, BE, BG, BH, BL, DB, DC, DF, DG, DH, DO-- dripline on all sides.
       b. #A, B, C--edge of existing planter. After demolition expand fence to edge of new
           planter.
       c. #D--10' east, 20' north and south.
       d. #E--20' west, 17' east, 10' south, 13' north to fence.
       e. #F--20' west and east, 15' south, fence on north.
       f. #H--20' west, east and south, 8' north to fence.
       g. #I, BW, BX--edge of existing paving on east.
       h. #J--30' west and east, 9' south, fence on north.
       i. #K--20' west and east, 10' south, 13' to property line on north.
       j. #L--20' on west, east and north; fence on south.
       k. #O--10' north and dripline on all other sides.
       l. #Q--15' north of existing fence.
       m. #T, U, V, BR, CD, CE, CF,CG--property line on north.
       n. #X, BD--20' on all sides.
       o. #AA, AC, AF, AG, AI, AJ, AK, AN, AR, CA, CL, CM, CN, CP, CQ, CT, CU, CV, CW,
           CZ--edge of existing paving on west and north.
       p. #AL-- existing fence on south.
       q. #AO, AP, AT, BK--edge of existing paving on east, south and north.
       r. #AU, AV, AW, DA-- no tree protection required.
       s. #AY, AZ, BB, DD, DE, DI-- dripline or edge of proposed paving.
       t. #AX--dripline on south.
       u. #BI, BJ--new pathway on south, dripline on all other sides.
       v. #BV--10' south and edge of new walkway on west.
       w. #BY--3' south, dripline on all other sides.
       x. #CH--15' west and east, 10' north and south.
       y. #CI--north edge of the existing gravel driveway.
       z. #DJ, DK, DL, DM, DN--existing retaining wall on west.
       aa. #DP--23' west, 8' east, 20' north and 10' south.

           Note: During demolition and construction TREE PROTECTION ZONES may need to be
           temporarily modified to accommodate construction activities. Where trees are
           clustered together create one continuous TREE PROTECTION ZONE. This will
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                   HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                              Page 17



            improve tree protection by eliminating cut through traffic between trees, and will be
            less expensive then individually fencing each tree.

    11. As trees withdraw water from the soil, expansive soils may shrink within the root area.
        Therefore, foundations, footings and pavements on expansive soils near trees should
        be designed to withstand differential displacement.


    12. All trees--do not lime soil within 50' of trees. Lime is toxic to tree roots.

    13. Any herbicides placed under paving materials must be safe for use around trees and
        labeled for that use.

Pre-construction treatments and recommendations
    1. The construction superintendent shall meet with the Consulting Arborist before
       beginning work to discuss work procedures and tree protection fencing.

    2. Fence all trees to be retained to completely enclose the TREE PROTECTION ZONE prior to
       demolition, grubbing or grading. Fences shall be 6 ft. chain link fence on posts driven
       into the ground. Fences are to remain until all grading, construction and landscaping is
       completed. We suggest placing weather proof signs on the fencing that read "TREE
       PROTECTION ZONE KEEP OUT" (eg. one sign every 50-75' for trees fenced as a group,
       and one sign for each of the four compass points for single trees).

    3. Some off-site private trees may require pruning for clearance for construction
       equipment. Pruning offsite trees should be done with the property owner's permission.
       Prune trees to provide clearance for demolition and construction, clean the crown to 1"
       diameter branches and reduce the weight at the end of heavy branches, especially on
       trees located next to the existing parking areas, as required. Any crown raising shall
       be minimal and approved by the Consulting Arborist. All pruning shall be done by a
       State of California Licensed Tree Contractor (C61/D49). All pruning shall be done by
       Certified Arborist or Certified Tree Worker in accordance with the Best Management
       Practices for Pruning (International Society of Arboriculture, 2002) and adhere to the
       most recent editions of the American National Standard for Tree Care Operations
       (Z133.1) and Pruning (A300).

    4. Tree(s) to be removed that have branches extending into the canopy of tree(s) to
       remain shall be removed by a Certified Arborist or Certified Tree Worker and not by the
       demolition contractor. The Certified Arborist or Certified Tree Worker shall remove the
       trees in a manner that causes no damage to the tree(s) and understory to remain.

    5. Remove all ivy from tree trunks and remove it for a minimum distance of 5' form base
       of trunk. The work shall be done hand to avoid injuring the trunk tissue.

    6. Apply and maintain a 4-6"-deep layer of wood chip mulch (gorilla hair mulch is not
       acceptable) within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE of trees. Keep mulch 2-3' from the
       trunk.

Recommendations for tree protection during construction
   1. No grading, excavation, construction or storage of materials shall occur within that
      TREE PROTECTION ZONE unless approved and monitored by the Consulting Arborist. No
      underground services including utilities, sub-drains, water, sewer or irrigation shall be
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland                                  HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                                                             Page 18



        placed in the TREE PROTECTION ZONE unless approved and monitored by the Consulting
        Arborist. Spoil from trench, footing, utility or other excavation shall not be placed within
        the TREE PROTECTION ZONE, either temporarily or permanently. Any modifications must
        be approved and monitored by the Consulting Arborist.




    2. All demolition, grading and construction within the dripline of trees shall be done using
       the smallest equipment possible. The Consulting Arborist will identify where hand
       grading will be required. The equipment shall operate perpendicular to the tree and
       operate from outside the TREE PROTECTION ZONE. Motorized compaction equipment
       shall not be used within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE.

    3. Prior to excavation for the grading or construction trees may require root pruning
       outside the TREE PROTECTION ZONE by cutting all roots cleanly to the depth of
       construction. Roots will be exposed by either: pulling soil away from the tree with a
       small back hoe; digging by hand; using an air spade; or water evacuation. The
       Consulting Arborist should monitor the excavation and root pruning. Roots shall be
       pruned at undamaged tissue and perpendicular to the root, with a saw or other
       approved root pruning equipment. The Consulting Arborist will identify in the field
       where root pruning is to occur, if required.

    4. Prior to renovation of the asphalt parking areas the trunks of selected trees (eg. A-C,
       BB, AZ, DA-DE, DH, DI, DP and possible others) may require protection. Stack bales
       of hay on the construction side of the tree to keep falling debris from damaging the
       trunk. Stack bales to a height of 6-8'. The Consulting Arborist will identify in the field
       where the bales will be used and at what height depending on the construction activity.

    5. All construction, landscaping and irrigation work within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE of
       trees shall be done by hand unless approved and monitored by the Consulting Arborist.

    6. Supplemental irrigation shall be applied as determined by the Consulting Arborist. The
       coast redwood trees located in the existing parking area and at 5928 Thornhill Dr. will
       require regular irrigation during the construction period

    7. If injury should occur to any tree during construction, it should be evaluated as soon as
       possible by the Consulting Arborist so that appropriate treatments can be applied.

    8. No excess soil, chemicals, debris, equipment or other materials shall be dumped or
       stored within the TREE PROTECTION ZONE.

    9. Any additional tree pruning needed for clearance during construction must be
       performed by a Certified Arborist and not by construction personnel.

Maintenance of impacted trees
Trees preserved at the St. John's site will experience physical environment different from that
pre-development. As a result, tree health and structural stability should be monitored.
Occasional pruning, fertilization, mulch, pest management, replanting and irrigation may be
required. In addition, provisions for monitoring both tree health and structural stability following
construction must be made a priority. As trees age, the likelihood of failure of branches or
entire trees increases. Therefore, annual inspection for hazard potential is recommended.
Tree Report, St. John's Episcopal Church Oakland   HortScience, Inc.
March 6, 2009                                              Page 19




HortScience, Inc.



Michael D. Santos
Certified Arborist #WC-3877
Registered Consulting Arborist #430
                                                                           St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                           1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                           Oakland, CA
                                                                           September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES               SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                      DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                          (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 1    Incense cedar        18,9,7,6        Yes        3         Moderate   Codominant at base with included bark
                                                                           between trunks; thin crown; small trunks with
                                                                           suppressed crowns.
 2    Coast live oak          11           Yes        2          Poor      Tree in decline; thin crown; trunk leans south;
                                                                           branch dieback.
 3    Incense cedar           21           Yes        3         Moderate   Narrow upright form; thin high crown.
 4    Incense cedar           18           Yes        2          Poor      High crown bows over house; high potential
                                                                           to fail; remove tree.
 5    Douglas-fir            20            Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; full high crown.
 6    Pyracantha            7,2,2          Yes        2          Poor      Suppressed crown; branch dieback; large
                                                                           shrub form.
 7    Bigleaf maple         14,13          Yes        3         Moderate   Codominant at 2'; 14'' stem bows west; twig
                                                                           dieback.
 9    Unknown                              No         0          Poor      High stump with ivy.
 10   Coast redwood           12           Yes        3         Moderate   High thin crown; top of creek.
 11   Plum                    10           Yes        3          Poor      Branch dieback; branch failures; epicormic
                                                                           sprouts; top of creek.
 12   Plum                   10            Yes        2          Poor      Trunk engulfed in ivy; epicormic sprouts.
 15   Cherry                  9            Yes        0          Poor      Dead.
 20   Incense cedar         21,21          Yes        3         Moderate   Codominant at base with included bark
                                                                           between trunks; full crown; stems maybe
                                                                           separating.
 21   Hollywood juniper       14           Yes        4         Moderate   Crown flat on north; trunk growing into porch.
 24   Deodar cedar            13           Yes        1          Poor      Trunk and crown engulfed in ivy; small crown;
 25   Plum                   10,6          Yes        2          Poor      Codominant at 6' with included bark between
                                                                           attachments.

                                                                                                                Page 1
                                                                        St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                        1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                        Oakland, CA
                                                                        September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES            SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                   DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                       (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 26   English laurel     8,6,5          Yes        3          Poor      Partial root failure; trunk leans north; low
                                                                        crown.
 27   American elm         16           Yes        3         Moderate   High crown; branch failures; trunks engulfed
                                                                        in ivy.
 28   American elm         15           Yes        3         Moderate   High crown; branch failures; trunks engulfed
                                                                        in ivy.
 29   American elm         14           Yes        3         Moderate   High crown; branch failures; trunks engulfed
                                                                        in ivy.
 30   Plum                6,5           Yes        1          Poor      Poor form and structure; suppressed crown.
 31   Plum               8,4.4          Yes        2          Poor      Extensive sprouting; included bark between
                                                                        attachments.
 32   Apple               5,4           Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 3' with included bark; upright
                                                                        form; low crown; fireblight.
 33   Apple              4,4,4          Yes        3          Poor      Trunks divide at 1' with included bark; upright
                                                                        form; low crown; fireblight.
 34   Apple              6,3,3          Yes        3          Poor      Partial root failure; trunk leans west low
                                                                        crown; fireblight.
 35   Apple              3,3,3          Yes        3          Poor      Trunks divide at ground with included bark;
                                                                        upright form; fireblight.
 36   Apple               6,3           Yes        3          Poor      Suppressed crown; crown bows southwest;
                                                                        fireblight.
 37   Cherry             4,4,4          Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 1' with included bark; upright
                                                                        narrow form; twig dieback.
 38   Plum                4,2           No         2          Poor      Trunks stem from base with included bark
                                                                        between attachments; twig dieback.
 39   Loquat              5,3           No         3         Moderate   Previously topped; full crown; trunks stem
                                                                        from base within included bark.

                                                                                                             Page 2
                                                                        St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                        1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                        Oakland, CA
                                                                        September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES            SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                   DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                       (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 40   Plum              4,3,2,2,2       Yes        1          Poor      Thin crown; extensive branch dieback.
 41   Plum                 7,4          Yes        3         Moderate   Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                        thin; branch dieback.
 42   Apple              5,4,3          Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 2'; upright form; low crown;
                                                                        fireblight.
 43   Plum              4,4,3,3         Yes        2          Poor      Trunks stem from base with included bark
                                                                        between attachments; twig dieback.
 44   Plum                6,3           Yes        2          Poor      Crown leans west; trunks stem from base
                                                                        with included bark between attachments; twig
 45   Apple              5,4,3          Yes        2          Poor      Partial root failure; trunk leans west;
                                                                        suppressed crown.
 46   Apple               6,5           Yes        3         Moderate   Upright form; twig dieback; fireblight.
 47   Apple             8,8,6,6         Yes        2          Poor      Tree in decline; extensive branch dieback.
 48   Apple             10,7,6,4        Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 2'; good form; low crown; 4''
                                                                        west facing stem was dead; fireblight.
 49   Apple              5,3,2          Yes        2          Poor      Tree in decline; extensive branch dieback.
 50   Monterey pine       20            No         3          Poor      Codominant at 18' with included bark; high
                                                                        potential to fail; crown somewhat thin;
                                                                        chlorotic needles.
 51   Coast live oak       8            Yes        2          Poor      Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                        crown in grove; branch dieback.
 52   Coast live oak       7            Yes        2          Poor      Suppressed crown in grove; crook in trunk at
                                                                        4'.
 53   Hawthorne           4,4           No         3          Poor      Poor form and structure; tree leans west.
 54   Plum                 9            Yes        2          Poor      Topped at 7'; extensive sprouting; included
                                                                        bark between attachments.


                                                                                                            Page 3
                                                                         St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                         1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                         Oakland, CA
                                                                         September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES            SIZE          PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                   DIAMETER          TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                        (in inches)              5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 55   Monterey pine         15            No         2          Poor     Poor narrow form; crook in trunk; ivy on
                                                                         trunk.
 56   Plum                 9,8            Yes        2          Poor     Extensive branch dieback; included bark
                                                                         between attachments.
 57   Glossy privet     3,3,2,2,2         Yes        2          Poor     Trunks stem from base; shrub form.

 58   Glossy privet    3,3,3,2,2,2,2      Yes        2          Poor     Trunks stem from base; shrub form.

 59   Glossy privet      3,3,2,2          Yes        1          Poor     Suppressed crown; declining health; shrub
                                                                         form.
 60   Glossy privet        7,6            Yes        1          Poor     Suppressed crown; declining health; shrub
                                                                         form.
 61   Chinese elm           7             No         2          Poor     Poor form and structure; large trunk wound.
 62   Hawthorne             6             No         3          Poor     Narrow upright form; branch failure; trunk
                                                                         wound on east.
 63   Glossy privet      4,3,2,2          Yes        1          Poor     Suppressed crown; declining health; shrub
                                                                         form.
 64   Coast live oak        4             Yes        1          Poor     Suppressed crown in grove.

 65   Coast live oak        6             Yes        2          Poor     Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                         crown in grove; branch dieback.
 66   Coast live oak       10,6           Yes        2          Poor     Trunk divides at 2' with included bark; decay
                                                                         in 6'' trunk; trunk and crown leans north;
                                                                         suppressed form.
 67   Coast live oak       5,5            Yes        2          Poor     Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                         crown in grove; branch dieback.


                                                                                                              Page 4
                                                                        St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                        1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                        Oakland, CA
                                                                        September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES            SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                   DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                       (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 68   Coast live oak       8            Yes        2          Poor      Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                        crown in grove; branch dieback.
 69   Coast live oak       5            Yes        2          Poor      Suppressed crown in grove; trunk leans
                                                                        north; branch dieback.
 70   Coast live oak       7            Yes        2          Poor      Suppressed crown in grove; upright form;
                                                                        branch dieback.
 71   Crytomeria           13           Yes        2          Poor      Tree in decline; narrow form.
 72   Monterey pine        28           No         3          Poor      Poor form; one-sided crown; branch dieback.
 73   Douglas-fir          20           Yes        3          Poor      Poor form; crook in trunk at 40'; one sided
                                                                        crown.
 74   Coast live oak       10           Yes        3          Poor      Suppressed crown to west; tree bows over
                                                                        parking lot .
 75   Coast live oak       14           Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk and crown leans west over parking lot.
  A   Coast redwood        42           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; full crown.
 AA   Coast live oak       14           Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                        crown in grove; branch dieback.
 AC   Coast live oak       15           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                        thin.
 AF   Coast live oak       15           Yes        3         Moderate   Tree leans west towards parking lot; good
                                                                        form and structure; crown somewhat thin.
 AG   Coast live oak       11           Yes        3         Moderate   Good form; branch dieback; suppressed
                                                                        crown in grove.
 AI   Coast live oak      10,6          Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk and crown leans north; suppressed
                                                                        crown in grove; branch dieback.
 AJ   Coast live oak       8            Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; branch dieback.
 AK   Coast live oak       7            Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; trunk leans
                                                                        north; branch dieback.
                                                                                                           Page 5
                                                                            St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                            1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                            Oakland, CA
                                                                            September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES                SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                       DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                           (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 AL   Coast live oak           20           Yes        4          Good      Untagged and offsite; good form and
                                                                            structure; crown extended 24' south from
                                                                            edge of property into project site.
 AN   Coast live oak           10           Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk and crown leans north; branch
                                                                            dieback.
 AO   Coast live oak        24,20,20        Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 1.5'; cavity in trunk at
                                                                            attachments; decay in pruning wound; two
                                                                            stems over house and rear yard with heavy
                                                                            weight; epicormic sprouts.
 AP   Coast live oak          10,9          Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk divides at 1'; crook in-trunk.
 AR   Coast live oak           9            Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown; thin crown.
 AT   Coast live oak           19           Yes        4         Moderate   Good form; trunk divides at 15'; decay in
                                                                            pruning wounds.
 AU   Coast live oak           28           Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk divides at 15' into two stems; decay in
                                                                            pruning wound; crown somewhat thin; branch
                                                                            on east propped with steel post.
 AV   Red horse chestnut       17           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                            thin; in 4' tree well; raised concrete.
AW    Red horse chestnut       20           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                            thin; in 4' tree well; raised concrete.
 AX   Red horse chestnut       9            Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                            thin; in 4' tree well.
 AY   Coast live oak           15           Yes        4          Good      Good young tree; remove 5''-stem with
                                                                            included bark.
 AZ   Cherry                  7,4           Yes        3         Moderate   Overtopped by BB; thin crown; branch
                                                                            dieback.


                                                                                                                Page 6
                                                                                  St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                                  1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                                  Oakland, CA
                                                                                  September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES                SIZE              PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                       DIAMETER              TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                             (in inches)                 5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 B    Coast redwood              67               Yes        4          Good      Good form; full crown; trunk divides into
                                                                                  multiple stems at 5' with included bark; trunks
                                                                                  fused together.
 BB   Saucer magnolia        6,6,6,4,3            Yes        4          Good      Trunks stem from base; good form; full
                                                                                  crown.
 BD   Coast redwood              36               Yes        4          Good      Good form; full crown; codominant at 6' with
                                                                                  trunks fused together.
 BE   Cherry                     9                Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks divide at 4'; twig dieback; crown
                                                                                  somewhat thin.
 BG   English laurel           8,6,6              Yes        4          Good      Trunks stem from base; upright form; full
                                                                                  crown.
 BH   English laurel             6                No         2          Poor      Partial root failure; suppressed crown.
 BI   English laurel            8,8               Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk divides at 3' with wide attachment; low
                                                                                  crown.
 BJ   English laurel     9,7,7,6,5,5,4,4,4,3      Yes        3         Moderate   Partial root failure; trunks stem from base;
                                                                                  some trunks on ground.
 BK   Coast live oak             19               Yes        4          Good      Offsite; codominant at 5'; good form; crown
                                                                                  somewhat thin; canopy extends east over
                                                                                  parking lot 23'.
 BL   Purple leaf plum           16               Yes        3         Moderate   Offsite; branch dieback; epicormic sprouts;
                                                                                  canopy extends to edge of parking lot.
 BR   Coast redwood              32               Yes        4         Moderate   Narrow crown; side pruned for utility line; top
                                                                                  of creek.
 BV   Douglas-fir                14               Yes        3         Moderate   High crown, first branch at 20'; 3' from church
                                                                                  building.
BW    Plum                      9,5               Yes        3         Moderate   Extensive sprouting; included bark between
                                                                                  attachments.
                                                                                                                       Page 7
                                                                            St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                            1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                            Oakland, CA
                                                                            September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES                SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                       DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                           (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 BX   Plum                   10,8,8         Yes        3         Moderate   Trunks stem from base; extensive sprouting;
                                                                            included bark between attachments.
 BY   Japanese maple          10,9          Yes        4          Good      Trunks stem from base; full crown; branches
                                                                            touch at 4'.
 C    Coast redwood           26            Yes        3         Moderate   Narrow upright form; suppressed crown on
 CA   Plum                    6,5           Yes        3         Moderate   Good upright form; twig dieback.
 CB   Monterey pine           24            No         3         Moderate   Thin crown; branch dieback.
 CC   Monterey pine           27            No         3         Moderate   Thin crown; branch dieback; ivy on trunk; top
                                                                            of creek.
 CD   Giant sequoia            19           Yes        3         Moderate   Good form and structure; crown somewhat
                                                                            thin; browning needles; ivy on trunk.
 CE   Giant sequoia            30           Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown on creek side; crown
                                                                            somewhat thin; browning needles; ivy on
                                                                            trunk.
 CF   Giant sequoia            7            No         3         Moderate   One sided form; browning needles; top of
                                                                            creek.
 CG   Fremont cottonwood       15           Yes        3         Moderate   Codominant at 35' with wide attachment;
                                                                            branch dieback; ivy on trunk.
 CH   Monterey cypress         18           Yes        5          Good      Excellent form and structure; full low crown.
 CI   Incense cedar            18           Yes        4          Good      Untagged and offsite; full crown; codominant
                                                                            at 10' with included bark between
                                                                            attachment.
 CL   Coast live oak           5            Yes        3         Moderate   Good form; suppressed crown in grove;
                                                                            branch dieback.
CM    Ovens wattle             10           Yes        3         Moderate   Good form; thin crown; branch dieback;
                                                                            suppressed crown in grove.


                                                                                                                Page 8
                                                                               St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                               1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                               Oakland, CA
                                                                               September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES              SIZE             PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                     DIAMETER             TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                          (in inches)                 5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 CN   Coast live oak         20,18             Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk divides at 2' with included bark; trunk
                                                                               and crown leans north; suppressed form.
 CP   Coast live oak       14,14,12            Yes        4         Moderate   Trunks divides at 2'; good form; tree under
                                                                               utility lines.
 CQ   Coast live oak          10               Yes        3         Moderate   Trunk and crown leans east; suppressed
                                                                               form.
 CT   Coast live oak          13               Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; branch dieback.
 CU   Coast live oak          8                Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; trunk leans
                                                                               north; branch dieback.
CV    Coast live oak          10               Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; branch dieback.
CW    Coast live oak          6                Yes        3         Moderate   Suppressed crown in grove; upright form;
                                                                               branch dieback.
 CZ   Coast live oak          10               Yes        3         Moderate   Upright form; high crown; in grove; branch
                                                                               dieback.
 D    Deodar cedar            36               Yes        4         Moderate   Offsite; narrow form; codominant at 30'; two
                                                                               stems touch at 33'; branch failure.
 DA   Coast redwood    40,18,14,13,1,10,7      Yes        3          Poor      Topped; wide crown; under utility lines.
 DB   Coast live oak           8               Yes        4         Moderate   Good young tree; codominant at 18'; under
                                                                               utility lines.
 DC   Coast live oak         12,6              Yes        4         Moderate   Good young tree; trunks stem from base;
                                                                               under utility lines.
 DD   Coast live oak          9                Yes        4          Good      Good young tree; codominant at 15'.
 DE   Coast live oak          22               Yes        4         Moderate   Good form; trunk divides at 5'; corner of
                                                                               Goulidn Rd. and driveway; under utility lines.
 DF   Coast live oak           8               Yes        4          Good      Good young tree; codominant at 6'; remove
                                                                               small stem.


                                                                                                                    Page 9
                                                                        St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                        1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                        Oakland, CA
                                                                        September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES            SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                   DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                       (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 DG   Coast live oak      8,3           Yes        4          Good      Good young tree; full crown; codominant at 6'
                                                                        with included bark.
 DH   Plum               5,5,5          Yes        3         Moderate   Multiple attachments at 2'; branch dieback.
 DI   Coast live oak       9            Yes        5          Good      Good young tree; excellent form and
                                                                        structure.
 DJ   Coast live oak     16,13          Yes        4         Moderate   Good form; full crown; trunk divides at 1' with
                                                                        included bark; seam below attachment.
 DK   Coast live oak       6            Yes        2          Poor      Poor form; lost central leader; suppressed
                                                                        crown.
 DL   Monterey pine        27           No         3         Moderate   High crown; trunk leans north; weight heavier
                                                                        on north.
DM    Monterey pine        27           No         3         Moderate   High crown; crown bows southeast; weight
                                                                        heavier on southeast; ivy on trunk.
 DN   Monterey pine        11           No         3         Moderate   Young tree; crook in trunk at 30'.
 DO   Irish yew            9            Yes        4         Moderate   Oval form; full crown.
 DP   Coast live oak       21           Yes        4          Good      Good form; codominant at 6' with included
                                                                        bark; ivy on trunk.
 E    Coast redwood        32           Yes        5          Good      Excellent form and structure; full low crown.
 F    Coast live oak       25           Yes        4          Good      Good form; decay in pruning wound on south;
                                                                        cable north facing stem towards carport.
 H    Coast redwood        61           Yes        4          Good      Good form; codominant at 6-10' with several
                                                                        stems fused together; full crown.
 I    Irish yew          multi          Yes        4          Good      Offsite; eight stems 7'' and under; trunks
                                                                        divide at 2'; full crown.
 J    Coast live oak       35           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; northwest facing
                                                                        scaffold horizontal and heavy; large pruning
                                                                        wound on south was closed.
                                                                                                            Page 10
                                                                            St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                            1770 Gouldin Road
                                                                            Oakland, CA
                                                                            September 3 & 11, 2008


TREE gSPECIES                SIZE        PROTECTED CONDITION    SUITABILITY COMMENTS
 No.                       DIAMETER        TREE?    1=POOR          FOR
                           (in inches)             5=EXCELLENT PRESERVATION


 K    London plane             27           Yes        4          Good      Open spreading form; high crown; top of
                                                                            creek.
 L    Canary Island pine       32           Yes        4          Good      Good form and structure; full crown; ivy on
                                                                            trunk.
 M    Fremont cottonwood       36           Yes        4         Moderate   High crown; branch failures; ivy on trunk.
 N    Deodar cedar             16           Yes        3         Moderate   Thin crown; branch dieback; at top of creek.
 O    Coast redwood           22,7          Yes        4         Moderate   Narrow crown; side pruned for utility line.
 P    Coast redwood            27           Yes        3         Moderate   Narrow small crown; side pruned for utility
                                                                            line.
 Q    Coast live oak           23           Yes        3         Moderate   Topped; trunk leans northwest touching wood
                                                                            shed; cavity in pruning wound on west; trunk
                                                                            maybe in fill soil.
 T    Coast redwood            28           Yes        4          Good      Narrow crown; side of creek.
 U    Coast redwood            15           Yes        3         Moderate   Narrow suppressed crown; side of creek.
 V    Coast redwood            30           Yes        4          Good      Good form; full crown; side of creek.
 X    Coast redwood            56           Yes        4          Good      Good form; full crown; codominant at 50';
                                                                            consider removing one of the codominant
                                                                            trunks.
 Y    Smooth cypress           7            No         4          Good      Good young tree.




                                                                                                             Page 11
A   P P E N D I X                   G




HYDROLOGY

      · Bridge Design Review, June 28, 2007
      · Hydrology Report, May 3, 2010
      · Peer Review Comments on Hydrology Report, May 18, 2010




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
MEMORANDUM                                             Kamman Hydrology & Engineering, Inc.
                                                               7 Mt. Lassen Drive, Suite B-250, San Rafael, CA 94903
                                                                                            Telephone: (415) 491-9600
                                                                                             Facsimile: (415) 680-1538
                                                                                           E-mail: Greg@KHE-Inc.com


Date:            June 28, 2007
To:              Sara Sutton, DCE
From:            Greg Kamman
Subject:         Bridge Design Review: St. Johns Episcopal Church, Oakland, CA



You've requested that I review available project plans and comment on the suitability of
the preliminary bridge design for the St. Johns Episcopal Church in Oakland, California.
I have obtained and reviewed the project design sheets with focused review of the
following: A1.1 and S1 (both dated November 1, 2006 but revised June 15, 2007); Sheet
L1-1 dated November 1, 2006; and the preliminary creek grading plan (received June 28,
2007). I have not completed a comprehensive hydraulic analysis incorporating the
preliminary bridge design and creek realignment grading plan. However, based on the
findings from previous hydraulic modeling analyses completed for existing conditions
(see attached report dated December 27, 2004) and a preliminary creek alignment
alternative (see attached report dated July 20, 2005), I believe it is feasible to construct a
project bridge that will not adversely impact existing flood hazards upstream or
downstream of the project site. Please note that although several cross-sections are
labeled the same in the attached reports (e.g., XS-1), these sections do not correlate
between reports and represent completely different and unrelated creek cross-sectional
profiles.

Based on previous hydraulic modeling analyses of Temescal Creek through the project
area, the following assumptions, design criteria and pertinent findings were made with
respect to the current preliminary bridge crossing design.

      ·   We assume the bridge is to be designed to safely pass a flood flow having a 100-
          year recurrence interval.

      ·   The simulated maximum 100-year flood water surface elevation at the bridge
          location is no higher than 598-feet in elevation under existing channel geometry.
          Assuming 2-feet of freeboard, this equates to a minimum bridge bottom elevation
          of 600-feet.

      ·   The current bridge design indicates that the proposed free-spanning bridge
          decking and roadway are at least 2-feet above the 100-year flood water level.

      ·   Design drawings also indicate that bridge footings are outside of and above the
          100-year flood water surface.


                                              1
·   Simulation results indicate that realigning and/or widening the creek per prior
    realignment/widening alternatives will effectively reduce water surface elevations
    at the bridge site as compared to existing conditions. At a minimum, we do not
    expect flood water surface elevations to increase above existing and comparable
    flood levels at the bridge in response to any proposed creek realignment work
    identified on the design drawings.

·   We strongly recommend that a hydraulic analysis be completed on the final creek
    realignment and bridge design to confirm that the bridge and creek corridor will
    function as desired as well as fine-tune final bridge installation elevations.




                                        2
                                                                   Kamman Hydrology & Engineering, Inc.
                                                                         101 Lucas Valley Road, Suite 120, San Rafael, CA 94903
                                                                                                       Telephone: (415) 491-9600
                                                                                                        Facsimile: (415) 680-1538
                                                                                            E-mail: info@KammanHydrology.com




December 27, 2004

Sarah Sutton
Wolfe Mason Associates/Design, Community & Environment
1600 Shattuck Ave., Suite 222
Berkeley, CA 94709


Subject: Survey and Hydraulic Analysis of St. Johns Property Project
         Temescal Creek, Oakland, CA

Dear Sarah:

This letter presents the results of the December 13, 2004 survey and subsequent hydraulic
analysis of the portion of Temescal Creek that flows through the St. Johns Episcopal Church
Property (the Site) that is slated for bridge construction. The purpose and objective of this report
is two-fold and includes; a) to provide the necessary hydrologic analysis to satisfy the technical
requirements of the City of Oakland's Creek Protection Ordinance, and b) to assist in
background analyses that will assist with the design the St. Johns property bridge. Included
within this letter report are the survey and field methods, results of field observations and
existing channel observations, and hydrologic analysis results.

Field Methods
A total of six channel cross-sections and one longitudinal channel profile were surveyed at the Site on
December 13, 2004. Cross-sectional and longitudinal profile locations are indicated on the attached site
plan (Figure 1). Six cross-sections (X-Sections 1 through 6) were completed downstream of the culvert
that crosses under the tenant driveway accessing Thornhill Drive (the driveway borders the Eastern end
of the St. Johns property). A 196-foot longitudinal profile of the channel thalweg1 was completed
centered on the upstream culvert (Figures 2-7).

To complete cross-sections, a measuring tape was stretched horizontally between monuments on either
side of the channel and floodplain, perpendicular to the local channel alignment. End points were located
to capture the full extent of floodplain/terrace features. Station distances were measured in feet from the
left bank2 end point. Vertical leveling was completed at intervals along each cross-section using a
TOPCON-brand auto-level and staff rod. Intervals were selected to capture breaks in slope and important
channel morphologic features along each cross-section and the longitudinal profile. All surveys were
completed on a common vertical datum but not tied into any standard vertical control (e.g., NAVD83).


Results of Field Surveys and Existing Channel Observations
Cross-sectional and longitudinal profiles are presented in Figures 2 through 7. The horizontal and
vertical scales on these plots (except for the long profile) are consistent to aid in the comparison between
cross-sections. X-Sections 2 and 3 exhibit a lower bank terrace on the right hand bank of the Creek with
an elevation of 3-6 feet below the upper right hand bank.

1
    A channel thalweg is defined as a line connecting the lowest (deepest) points along a streambed.
2
    The left bank is the channel bank on an observer's left-hand side as they face in a downstream direction.

\\Sbserver\company\3034 St Johns Church\draft_report_122704 .doc
Based on these field observations, channel bank/bed stability can be summarized as follows:

    ·    The bed and bank materials are a mix of mud-stone and aggregate clay materials;

    ·    Due to the above-mentioned soil structure, the observed lower terraced bank may be a result of
         soil slump;

    ·     Near vertical bank sections were observed in X-Sections 1, 4 and 5 signifying an unstable and
         erosion prone right bank; and

    ·    A tree fall below X-Section 3 was observed and acts as a flow control structure, likely increasing
         erosion during high flow events.

Although observations are provided here, design and engineering of the proposed bridge by a qualified
geotechnical consultant are recommended in order to accurately define the properties of the soils and
technical feasibility of bridge construction at this site.

Hydraulic Modeling Results
Pursuant to the City of Oakland's Creek Protection Ordinance-Hydrology Report requirements, the
profile data obtained in the stream survey was used to model flood flow through the stream reach using
the Army Corp of Engineers HEC-RAS modeling suite. The flood flows used were cited or derived from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance study (FIS) of September
30,1982, Community-Panel Number 065048 0020. The values (flow expressed in cubic feet per second ­
CFS) are presented in the table below:

Table 1: FEMA Flood Analysis for Temescal creek
                 5-year           10-year            25-year        50-year          100-year

Flow (CFS)       150*             180                300*           380              520

* Extrapolated from FEMA values



Water surface profiles for the 5-, 10-, 25-,50- and 100-year flood events were calculated for Temescal
creek for each X-Section along the longitudinal profile. These results are plotted in Figures 2 through7, 9
and 10. Simulation results indicate overtopping of the culvert and driveway (Figure 10) during 10-year
and higher flows. Unfortunately, due to property access denial, survey measurements of the stream
channel upstream of the culvert were not possible during the survey of December 13, 2004.
However, based on review of standard culvert capacity curves for a 4-foot diameter pipe, the maximum
culvert flow capacity is approximated at 180-CFS with 12-feet of backwater behind the bridge structure.
Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that overtopping may occur during the 10-year (and greater) flood
events. A summary of assumptions and limitations of the hydraulic analysis follow.

    ·   Due to non-accessibility of the upstream side of the culvert bridge on the eastern portion of the St.
        Johns Property, stream channel X-Sections and longitudinal profiles are unknown - estimates
        based on field observations were used for model geometry of this approach reach.



                                                 2
      ·   For flows equal to or under the 10-year flood, the dimensions of the culvert were used in the
          hydraulic model.

      ·   For flows over the 10-year flood, the current estimated upstream culvert dimensions result in an
          overtopping of the bridge, thus the driveway acts as weir on Temescal creek during these flow
          events.

      ·   As a result of the upstream channel unknowns, the model was also run with the culvert bridge
          removed for the 25-, 50- and 100-year flows in order to predict the most conservative water
          surface elevation along the property reach with unimpeded storm flows.

The simulated water surface profiles indicated on Figures 2 through 7 indicate the areas inundated by
100-year and lesser flood flows. This information can be used to locate bridge footings that will lie
outside of the 100-year flood zone and active creek channel, eliminating changes in existing flow
conditions and channel conveyance. Based on these design assumptions, it appears from Figures 2 and 3
(X-sections that bound the proposed bridge location) that a minimum 30-foot bridge span will be required
to avoid impacting the existing 100-year flood capacity.

In conclusion, work presented in this letter characterizes the "pre-development/work" conditions required
by the City's Hydrology Report. We anticipate that the next step in the project design and permitting
process will be the engineering design of the bridge. Once a preferred project design is selected, we will
finalize the required "post-project/work" analyses and descriptions of potential impacts, bank stability and
other mitigation measures, if needed.

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call.


Sincerely,


Greg Kamman
Principal Hydrologist




Temoc Rios
Hydraulic Engineer


Attachments:
Exhibit A: Site Plan, Figures 1-10

CC:       John Seals, Davidson & Seals Architects




                                                  3
                                                                                                 Longitudinal
                                                                                                 Profile




                                                                                   XS-5
                                                                          XS-4
                                                       XS-2       XS-3                    XS-6
                                               XS-1



                                               Cross Sections = XS
                                               Cross Sections Shown Not to Scale




       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                      Site Plan With Cross Sections                                   Figure

                                      Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                           1
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 1
                                104

                                102

                                100

                                 98

                                 96
      relative elevation (ft)




                                 94
                                                                                              100-Year water level
                                 92

                                 90
                                                                                              5-Year water level
                                 88

                                 86

                                 84

                                 82

                                 80
                                      0   10        20          30                  40   50               60         70
                                                                     station (ft)




Kamman Hydrology
& Engineering, Inc.                                Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 1                          FIGURE

                                               Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                          2
                                        104


                                        102


                                        100


                                         98
              relative elevation (ft)




                                         96


                                         94

                                                                                                                        100-Year water level
                                         92


                                         90

                                                                                                   5-Year water level
                                         88


                                         86


                                         84
                                              0   10       20         30           40         50                   60                 70             80
                                                                               station (ft)




       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                                 Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 2                                           FIGURE

                                                       Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                                         3
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 3
                                       105




                                       100
             relative elevation (ft)




                                       95


                                                                                                                100-Year
                                                                                                                water level
                                       90



                                                                                                          5-Year water level
                                       85




                                       80
                                             0   10          20          30                  40   50       60                     70
                                                                              station (ft)




       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                                Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 3                            FIGURE

                                                      Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                          4
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 4
                                       97
             relative elevation (ft)




                                       92




                                                                                                                      100-Year water
                                                                                                                      level

                                       87



                                                                                                   5-Year
                                                                                                   water level




                                       82
                                            0   10              20               30           40                 50                        60
                                                                             station (ft)




      Kamman Hydrology
      & Engineering, Inc.                                Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 4                               FIGURE

                                                     Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                                 5
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 5 XS-4
                                       100


                                        98


                                        96


                                        94
             relative elevation (ft)




                                        92


                                        90
                                                                                                              100-Year water level

                                        88


                                        86
                                                                                                          5-Year Water
                                                                                                          level
                                        84


                                        82
                                             0   10              20               30           40               50                       60
                                                                              station (ft)




      Kamman Hydrology
      & Engineering, Inc.                                 Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 5                             FIGURE

                                                      Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                              6
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 6 XS-5
                                       100


                                        98


                                        96


                                        94
             relative elevation (ft)




                                        92


                                        90


                                        88
                                                                                        100 Year Water Level
                                        86

                                                                                       5-Year Water level
                                        84


                                        82
                                             0   10              20               30                        40   50         60
                                                                              station (ft)




      Kamman Hydrology
      & Engineering, Inc.                                 Ground Surface Elevation: Cross-Section 6                   FIGURE

                                                      Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                 7
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 7 XS-6
                                          95

                                          94

                                          93
                                                   XS-1        XS-2         XS-3           XS-4       XS-5         XS-6
                                          92

                                          91

                                          90
                relative elevation (ft)




                                          89

                                          88

                                          87

                                          86

                                          85

                                          84

                                          83

                                          82

                                          81

                                          80
                                               0          25      50         75         100         125      150     175   200
                                                                                     station (ft)




       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                                                  Channel Thalweg Profile                        FIGURE

                                                               Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA             8
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 8
                                                                                                                       STjohns       Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004
                                       STjohns      Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004
                                                                                                                             Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e
                                            Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e                                94
                   100                                                                                                                                                     Legend
                                                                                          Legend
                     98                                                                                   92                                                               EG PF 1
                                      5-Year                                              EG PF 1                     25-Year
                     96                                                                                                                                                    WS PF 1
                                                                                          WS PF 1
                                                                                                          90                                                               Crit PF 1
                     94                                                                               )
                                                                                                      t
            )                                                                             Crit PF 1   f
                                                                                                      (
            t
            f
            (                                                                                                                                                               Ground
                     92                                                                               n   88
            n                                                                              Ground     o
                                                                                                      i
            o                                                                                         t
            i
            t                                                                                         a
            a        90                                                                               v
            v                                                                                         e
                                                                                                      l
            e                                                                                         E   86
            l        88
            E
                     86                                                                                   84
                     84
                                                                                                          82
                     82                                                                                        0       50           100           150         200    250
                          0            50          100           150         200    250
                                                                                                                               Main Channel Distance (ft)
                                               Main Channel Distance (ft)

                                       STjohns      Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004                                      STjohns       Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004
                                            Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e                                                   Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e
                     94                                                                   Legend          96                                                               Legend
                              10-Year                                                                     94       50-Year
                     92                                                                   EG PF 1                                                                          EG PF 1
                                                                                          WS PF 1                                                                          WS PF 1
                                                                                                          92
                     90                                                                   Crit PF 1                                                                        Crit PF 1
            )
            t                                                                                         )
                                                                                                      t
            f
            (                                                                                         f
                                                                                                      (   90
            n                                                                              Ground     n                                                                     Ground
            o        88                                                                               o
            i
            t                                                                                         i
                                                                                                      t
            a                                                                                         a   88
            v                                                                                         v
            e
            l                                                                                         e
                                                                                                      l
            E        86                                                                               E
                                                                                                          86

                     84                                                                                   84

                     82                                                                                   82
                          0            50          100           150         200    250                        0       50           100           150         200    250
                                               Main Channel Distance (ft)                                                      Main Channel Distance (ft)



       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                                     Water Surface Elevations for 5,10,25, 50-year flows                                                           FIGURE

                                                              Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                                                                  9
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 9
                                                     STjohns       Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004
                                                          Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e
                                  96                                                                        Legend

                                  94                                                                        EG P F 1
                                                                                                            WS     PF 1
                                  92
                  )                                                                                         Crit   PF 1
                  t
                  f
                  (               90
                  n                                                                                          Ground
                  o
                  i
                  t               88
                  a
                  v
                  e
                  l
                  E
                                  86

                                  84

                                  82
                                       0             50          100            150          200      250
                                                            Main Channel Dist ance (f t )


                                                     STjohns       Plan: Plan 18      12/22/2004
                                                          Temescal Creek thornhilldriv e
                                100                                                                          Legend
                                  98
                                                                                                             EG PF 1
                                  96
                                                                                                            WS PF 1
                                  94                                                                        Crit   PF 1
                  )
                  t
                  f
                  (               92
                  n                                                                                           Ground
                  o
                  i
                  t               90
                  a
                  v
                  e
                  l
                  E               88

                                  86

                                  84

                                  82
                                       0             50           100           150          200      250
                                                             Main Channel Dist ance (f t )


       Kamman Hydrology
       & Engineering, Inc.                 Water Surface Elevations for 100-year Flows and 10-Year Flow With Culvert      FIGURE

                                                    Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                      10
xsections_survey121304.xls,Figure 10
                                         D E S I G N ,    C O M M U N I T Y     &   E N V I R O N M E N T




                      MEMORANDUM

    1600 SHATTUCK     D AT E July 20, 2005
           AVENUE     TO      John Seals, Davidson + Seals
         SUITE 222    FR OM Sarah Sutton, Isabelle Minn, Design, Community & Environment/Wolfe
                      Mason Associates
BERKELEY, CA 94709
                      RE      St John's Episcopal Church Creek Study
  TEL: 510 848 3815
  FAX 510 848 4315

                      Design, Community & Environment/Wolfe Mason Associates (DC&E/WMA) has
                      completed a preliminary evaluation of Temescal Creek and proposed
                      improvements for the St. John's Episcopal Church Entry Road, Bridge, Parking
                      and New Sanctuary project. We have reviewed the Geotechnical Investigation by
                      Land/Marin Geotechnics, and have completed a site visit with the hydrology
                      consultants Kamman Hydrology & Engineering (KHE). This memorandum
                      summarizes our findings to date and provides options for next steps in regard to
                      the creek restoration and planning work.

                      We understand that as part of the proposed project, there will be a vehicular
                      bridge from Thornhill Drive crossing Temescal Creek to a proposed parking
                      grove. DC&E/WMA and KHE have explored the possibility of realigning and
                      stabilizing the creek in order to reduce the erosion along Thornhill Drive on the
                      northern side of the creek, and to improve the creek's function and habitat value
                      in the project area. Please find attached the following:

                        Description of current conditions as part of the City of Oakland's Early
                        Consultation and Creek Assessment Report
                        Preliminary concept for creek realignment and associated figures
                        City of Oakland Early Consultation and Creek Assessment Report (form)

                      Figure A shows a plan view of the proposed creek realignment. The existing and
                      proposed creek center lines are shown. Figure B shows the locations of three
                      cross section through the creek channel, Figures 1-3. They depict both the
                      existing creek channel and the proposed relocation. The proposed realignment
                      would move the creek channel up to a maximum of 25 feet south of its current
                      location. This will bring the new top of bank within X' of the existing structure.
                      The realignment will also result in the removal of all tress along the south bank,
                      and will remove approximately 580 cubic yards of soil, with 280 cubic yards used
                      as fill for the north bank. Figure 4 shows the elevation of the channel thalweg
PAGE 2                      D E S I G N ,   C O M M U N I T Y    &   E N V I R O N M E N T




         downstream of the culvert. The inflection point indicates the location of a pool
         just below the culvert.


         Please review the enclosed material. Should you agree to move forward with the
         creek restoration concept, we would propose the following next steps:
           Acquire complete basemap in Auto CAD showing all relevant information
           (exiting survey, proposed site plan). We would need this information in order
           to complete the restoration plan.
           Complete restoration plan and creek protection report based on proposed
           realignment.
                                                                          S E A L S + D A V I D S O N A R C H I T E C T S
                    S T.   J O H N ' S   C R E E K   E P I S C O P A L   C H U R C H C R E E K P R O T E C T I O N S T U D Y




Existing Features
and Grades

Proposed Grade
Changes

Existing Creek                                                                                                          1
Centerline

Proposed Creek
Centerline




                                                                                               N O RT H
                                                                                                          0   20    40 feet




                                                                                                                   FIGURE A

                                                                           PROPOSED CREEK REALIGNMENT
                                                                          S E A L S + D A V I D S O N A R C H I T E C T S
                    S T.   J O H N ' S   C R E E K   E P I S C O P A L   C H U R C H C R E E K P R O T E C T I O N S T U D Y




      X sections

Elevation in feet
      588
      590
      592
      594
      596
      598
      600
                                    Longitudinal Profile (upstream)
      602
      604
      606
      608
      610




                                                XS-1




                                                     XS-2



                                                     XS-3



                             Longitudinal Profile (dowmstream)




                                                                                                           N OT TO S C A L E
                                                                                                N O RT H




                                                                                                                    FIGURE B

                      PROPOSED CREEK REALIGNMENT CROSS SECTION LOCATIONS
                      604



                      602



                      600                                            XS-1
                                                                     Existing XS


                      598
     Elevation (ft)




                      596



                      594



                      592



                      590



                      588
                            0   10      20         30          40              50   60   70     80
                                                           Station (ft)



Kamman Hydrology
& Engineering, Inc.                      Proposed Creek Alignment: Cross-Section 1            FIGURE

                                     Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA          1
                      602



                      600



                      598
                                                                        XS-2
                                                                        Existing XS
     Elevation (ft)




                      596



                      594



                      592



                      590



                      588
                            0   10      20        30          40          50          60   70   80
                                                          Station(ft)



Kamman Hydrology
& Engineering, Inc.                      Proposed Creek Alignment: Cross-Section 2              FIGURE

                                     Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA               2
                     604



                     602



                     600



                     598
                                                            XS-3
    Elevation (ft)




                                                            Existing XS
                     596



                     594



                     592



                     590



                     588
                           0   10      20        30          40           50     60     70    80
                                                         Station (ft)



Kamman Hydrology
& Engineering, Inc.                     Proposed Creek Alignment: Cross-Section 3            FIGURE

                                    Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA          3
                     600

                               Approximate Proposed
                     598
                               Bridge Location
                                                      XS-1                         XS-2          XS-3
                     596


                     594


                     592
     Elevation(ft)




                     590


                     588


                     586

                                                                  THALWEG
                     584


                     582


                     580
                           0   20       40       60          80         100        120    140   160     180     200
                                                                     Station(ft)


Kamman Hydrology
& Engineering, Inc.                          Proposed Creek Alignment: Long Profile                           FIGURE

                                        Temescal Creek, at St Johns Property, Oakland, CA                       4
                                HYDROLOGY REPORT
                                   Revised May 3, 2010
                     Prepared by Kamman Hydrology & Engineering, Inc.


Applicant/Property Owner: St. John's Episcopal Church
Job Address: 1707 Gouldin Road, Oakland, CA
Assessor's Parcel #: 48F-7390-4-9

   Description of Work: The project involves the construction of a new entry road and bridge
   across Temescal Creek, to provide access to the Church property from Thornhill Boulevard.
   Additional parking will be provided along the new entry road. The entry road and additional
   parking will be located on property that was recently acquired by the Church. The existing
   house on the property will be demolished and moderated cuts and fill are anticipated to grade
   the new entry road and parking area. The project will incorporate permeable pavements and
   onsite infiltration of storm water to the extent practical. The new vehicular bridge will be
   about 22 feet wide with a 5 foot pedestrian walkway and will clear span about 25 feet across
   the creek. As part of the project, only the new bridge-crossing portions of Temescal Creek
   will be disturbed. Creek banks beneath the bridge will be improved as described below to
   reduce future erosion and slope instability.

   As a future phase of construction, a new Sanctuary building will be constructed southeast of
   the existing Parish Hall. The Sanctuary will likely be a tall single story structure. The south
   wall of the Sanctuary will be cut into the hillside. As a result, a site retaining wall may be
   needed along the south side of the new building. The hillside shows indications of historic
   instability that will need to be mitigated during site development.


Department of Fish and Game approvals:
Coordination with Department of Fish and Game is to occur after the project has been approved
by the City of Oakland.

Alameda County Flood Control approvals:
Coordination with Alameda County Flood Control is to occur after the project has been approved
by the City of Oakland.




                                                1
                      1.0 EXISTING AND FUTURE PROJECT FLOWS

A prior version of this hydrology study was submitted in September 2009. The prior study
utilized flow rates for Temescal Creek as documented by FEMA in the City of Oakland Flood
Insurance Study (FEMA, 1982) and the newly released Alameda County and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Study (FEMA, 2009). Upon receipt of comments regarding the prior study
(Lesley Estes, October 29, 2009; Caesar Quitevis, November 12, 2009), a meeting to clarify the
comments was held in Oakland on December 10, 2009, including members of the City of
Oakland CEDA Planning & Zoning and Watershed and Stormwater Management departments;
Design Community & Environment (DCE); and Kamman Hydrology & Engineering (KHE).
Based on discussions during this meeting, the hydrology and hydraulic analysis was reconducted
utilizing zoning and parcel map data provided by the City of Oakland.

Pursuant to the County guidelines, the St. Johns project is characterized as a Primary facility as it
has a drainage area of 563-acres, which falls within the fifty acres to ten square mile
requirement. The project watershed also lies within the County's designated Flood Zone 12.
The County stipulated design storm for a Primary facility within Flood Zone 12 is a 25-year
storm. The corresponding County freeboard requirements indicate that the design storm water
surface should provide 1-foot of freeboard from the top of bank. In addition, there are two
County alternative requirements associated with bridge freeboard: a) the design (25-year) storm
provides 2-feet of freeboard from bridge soffit (top of underside of bridge) or b) the bridge
provide 100-year storm capacity.

A suite of design storms were utilized to estimate peak flow rates expected in Temescal Creek
for the 563 acre watershed draining to the site (Figure 1). The design storms represent rainfall
events with 24-hour precipitation totals that correspond to annual return frequencies of 2, 5, 10,
25, 50, and 100 years. Rainfall depths for the design storms were estimated using regression
equations developed for the San Francisco Bay Area (Rantz, 1971). Mean annual precipitation
of 23.1 inches was recorded at the NOAA weather station located at the Oakland Museum six
miles from the site (Station 046336).

Storm runoff totals generated from the design storms were estimated by the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) TR-55 curve number (CN) method (USDA, 1986).
Peak Flow estimates were then derived for the design storms using the Graphical Peak Discharge
method described in TR-55. The rationale for using the NRCS methods presented in TR-55 is
that they are well suited to the estimation of runoff and peak discharge in small, ungaged
watersheds. The approach is particularly effective at evaluating the expected impacts of land use
changes associated with anticipated development in an urban or urbanizing watershed. KHE was
asked to evaluate hydrologic conditions under both existing and fully developed conditions. This
request directed us to select the SCS methods in TR-55.

Determination of CN depends on the watershed's soil and land cover conditions. Runoff
estimates were made for both existing and fully developed (full build-out) conditions. Soil
characteristics were evaluated from NRCS soil survey data and maps. The soil maps divide the
watershed into three discrete soil map units, all of which are categorized as hydrologic soil group
D, indicating high runoff potential.

Land cover was categorized from a GIS assessment of the zoning information and the parcel map
using Alameda County Assessor's Use Codes (data provided by City of Oakland; see Figure 2).
                                                 2
Runoff estimates were completed for both existing and fully developed land use conditions. The
runoff curve number (CN) was developed separately for each condition using an area weighted
average for the division of land cover types within the watershed.

Table 1 summarizes the distribution of Assessor's Use codes within the watershed. The parcel
data were then classified into four land cover types: Residential, Undeveloped (zoned
residential), Open Space, and Streets and Roads (see Figure 3). The Residential class was
composed of parcels with Use Codes 1100-6600. CN values were determined for the land cover
classes using Tables 2-2a and 2-2c of the NRCS TR-55 publication (NRCS, 1986). Residential
areas were assigned a CN value for residential districts with an average lot size of ¼ acre.
Undeveloped land (zoned residential) and open space lands were assigned a CN value for woods.




                                                                                           N




        0      1000 Feet



Figure 1. Map of the watershed boundary, Temescal Creek upstream from St. John's Church.




                                                  3
                                                                N




                                              Zoning
                                               Residential (R-30)
                                               Open Space (RCA)
        0        1000 Feet                     Commercial (C-20)

Figure 2. Zoning map of watershed area.




                                          4
        N

                                                             Existing Condition




                                                                Fully Developed




                                                                   Cover Type
                                                                   Open Space
                                                                   Residential
  0         1000 Feet                                              Undeveloped (zoned residential)
                                                                   Streets and Roads

Figure 3. Map of land cover types for the existing (top) and fully developed conditions (bottom).




                                                      5
Data in Table 1 were utilized to compute the composite CN for the existing conditions. Next, the
96 acres of undeveloped parcels (zoned residential) were assumed to be converted to residential
lands and the composite CN was recomputed for fully developed conditions (Figure 3). Results
are summarized in Tables 2 and 3.

Peak discharge estimates for Temescal Creek at St. John's Church were developed using the
NRCS Graphical Peak Discharge method (USDA, 1986). Temescal Creek peak flow rates
representative of the 563 acre watershed are presented in Table 4. The peak discharge equation
is:

        qp = quAmQ


        where:
        qp = peak discharge (cfs)
        qu = unit peak discharge (peak discharge per square mile per inch of runoff)
        Am = drainage area (mi2)
        Q = storm runoff (in.), determined by CN method




Table 1. Summary of Assessor's Use Codes for parcels in the study watershed.
            Use
                                    Description                    Zoning       Acres
            Code
              300 Exempt public agencies                          Residential    5.8
              300 Exempt public agencies                         Open Space     59.2
              500 Property owned by a public utility              Residential    4.0
             1000 Vacant residential land                         Residential   89.2
             1100 Single family residential homes                 Residential   302.4
             1200 SFR home with non-economic 2nd unit             Residential    1.2
             2100 2, 3, or 4 single family homes                  Residential    0.8
             2200 Double or duplex                                Residential    0.3
             2500 Triplex                                         Residential    0.4
             4500 Nurseries                                      Commercial      0.5
             6600 Churches                                        Residential    1.3
             9900 Other recreational activity                     Residential    2.4
              NA Watershed area not covered by parcel data                       3.3

                    Subtotal                                                    470.8
                    Streets and Roads                                           92.4

                    Total Watershed Area                                        563




                                                     6
         Table 2. Land cover type classification of parcel data in the study watershed.
                                                                                                      Fully Developed
                                                                              Existing
                                                                                                      Conditions (Full
                                  Land Cover Type               CN           Conditions
                                                                                                        Build-out)
                                                                              (Acres)
                                                                                                          (Acres)
                        Residential                              87               307                       403
                        Undeveloped (zoned residential)          77                96                         0
                        Open Space                               77               68                         68
                        Streets and Roads                        98                92                        92

                                                     Total                        563                       563




         Table 3. Composite CN for existing and fully developed conditions.
                                                                                         Composite CN
                        Existing Conditions                                                  86
                        Fully Developed                                                      88




         Table 4. Rainfall and peak discharge estimates for Temescal Creek at project site.
                          Existing Conditions          Full Build-out
                                                        Conditions
                         SCS 24-                  SCS 24-                                   Run A        Run B
                                      SCS 24-Hr
                            Hr                       Hr       SCS 24-Hr                    SCS CN       City 6-Hr
                                        Storm
                          Storm                    Storm      StormPeak    Increase in     6-Storm        Storm       FEMA          USGS
 Return      24-hour                    Peak
                         Runoff                   Runoff       Discharge      Peak           Peak         Peak          Peak         Peak
Frequency    Rainfall                 Discharge
                         (inches)                 (inches)        (cfs)     Discharge     Discharge     Discharge    Discharge1   Discharge2
 (years)     (inches)                    (cfs)
                                                                               (%)           (cfs)         (cfs)        (cfs)        (cfs)
    2          2.51        1.25          139        1.39         161            16            n/a           n/a          n/a          22
    5          3.30        1.92          231        2.09         264            14           183           262          139           61
   10          3.87        2.42          306        2.61         337            10           263           390          180           99
   25          4.54        3.04          392        3.23         431            10           355           509          275          158
   50          5.09        3.55          474        3.75         511             8            n/a           n/a         380          210
   100         5.54        3.97          530        4.18         569             7           503           683          520          272




         Under the full build-out conditions within the watershed, peak flow rates at the project site
         increase between 7 and 16 percent. The impact of additional development is greatest for the
         lowest magnitude, high frequency flood event and decreases for the less frequent, higher
         magnitude events (e.g., 16-percent increase in discharge for 2-year flood to 7-percent increase in
         discharge for the 100-year event). For comparison, FEMA (1982, 2009) peak flow estimates are
         also included in Table 4. For all floods, the FEMA estimates are less than the NRCS method
         estimates. One contributing factor for the lower FEMA estimates is that they were generated


         1
           The 5- and 25-year events were estimated via power function applied to the FEMA 10, 50, 100, and 500 year
         recurrence interval peak flow values.
         2
           The 5- and 25-year events were estimated via power function applied to the FEMA 10, 50, 100, and 500 year
         recurrence interval peak flow values.

                                                                       7
almost 30-years ago and likely reflect a less developed watershed. Thus, the NRCS estimates
were used in all model simulations over the FEMA estimates.

Onsite storm water peak flows were generated by the project engineers (Sandis Engineers) for
existing conditions and for Phases I and II developed conditions. The Rational Method was
utilized for these calculations, a method applicable to small areas less than several hundred acres
(Sandis Engineers, Sept. 4, 2009; see Appendix A).

Existing onsite conditions reflect the building and landscape configuration of Church property
since 1954. Phase I entails reconfiguration of the onsite roadway and parking system on Church
property, including a bridge crossing Temescal Creek. Phase II incorporates a new sanctuary
facility for the Church, built upon the location of an existing paved area.

Through the use of low runoff-producing materials for parking and pathways, including packed
gravel and decomposed granite base, and reconfiguration of the existing paved surfaces, onsite
post-development conditions will produce slightly lower peak runoff values than existing
conditions, as shown in Table 5. Based on these calculations, no increase to the current peak
flow rates within Temescal Creek are expected due to the project.



Table 5. Onsite peak flow rates estimated by Sandis Engineers.
                         Onsite Existing-            Onsite Proposed-          Onsite Proposed-
         Return             Conditions               Conditions Peak           Conditions Peak
       Frequency                       3
                           Peak Runoff               Runoff (Phase I)          Runoff (Phase II)
         (years)
                                (cfs)                      (cfs)                     (cfs)
            2                    2.0                        2.0                       1.9
            5                    2.4                        2.4                       2.4
           10                    3.3                        3.3                       3.2
           25                    4.1                        4.1                       4.0
           50                    4.6                        4.6                       4.5
           100                   5.2                        5.2                       5.1



In order to evaluate the design flow estimates, KHE also estimated the peak discharge using the
guidelines in the City of Oakland Storm Drainage Design Guidelines for comparison (these
guidelines are consistent with Alameda County Hydrology and Hydraulics Criteria). The
guidelines present an approach that is very similar to the method used by KHE. It is similar in
that it abstracts a design rainfall event to evaluate the amount of rainfall which contributes to
surface runoff. There are two primary differences: (1) the design storm recommended by the
City of Oakland guidelines is a 6-hour storm as opposed to the 24-hour storm evaluated by the
SCS method; and (2) The City of Oakland's guidelines estimate loss rates, or the proportion of
rainfall that does not result in runoff, using the "Initial and Uniform Loss Rate" method as
opposed to the SCS CN method.

The effect of the different loss rate methods was evaluated using the HEC-HMS rainfall-runoff
modeling computer program. A suite of 6-hour design storms were developed using the method
presented in the City of Oakland guidelines. The method uses an equation to estimate the total

3
    Existing and proposed flows from Sandis Engineering (September 4, 2009).

                                                         8
rainfall depth based on the mean annual precipitation and distributes the storm rainfall into 15-
minute increments using the rainfall distribution presented by the Alameda County Hydrology
and Hydraulics Manual.

Runoff was simulated in the HEC-HMS model using SCS CN method to estimate losses (Run A;
Table 4). A second suite of model runs was then performed using the initial and uniform loss
rate method and parameters presented in the City of Oakland guidelines (Run B; Table 4).

The City-based model runs using the SCS method were compared to the initial peak discharge
estimates to assess the effect of using a 6-hour design storm instead of a 24-hour design storm.
The City SCS CN method estimates using the 6-hour design storm yielded peak discharge
estimates that ranged from 16- to 13-percent lower than the initial estimates using a 24-hour
storm (Table 4). The model results for the runs that used the initial and uniform loss rate method
suggested by the City of Oakland guidelines (Run B, City of Oakland guidelines) yield peak
discharge estimates that range from 13- to 30- percent higher than the initial 24-hour storm
estimates (Table 4).

The variability displayed in these estimates indicates that inherent uncertainty in generating peak
flow estimates. For further comparison, the FEMA flood estimates for Temescal Creek a short
distance downstream of the project site and USGS estimates based on regional regression
equations are also presented on Table 4. Both the FEMA and USGS estimates are lower than
those generated using the original 24-hour storm SCS CN method. Regardless of method used to
estimate project design flows, KHE's original estimates using the 24-hour storm SCS CN
method bracket the County required design storm estimate for the project facility.




                                                 9
2.0 PRE- & POST-PROJECT SIMULATED CREEK HYDRAULIC CONDITIONS

In order to evaluate potential changes in creek hydraulic conditions in association with the
proposed project, a full suite of hydraulic model simulations were completed reflecting a variety
of flow and site setting conditions. Model simulations included:

    ·   Simulation A: Existing site and flow conditions;
    ·   Simulation B: Project (developed) site conditions with existing flows (circa 2009);
    ·   Simulation C: Existing site and flow conditions with upstream and off-site 48-inch
        reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) removed;
    ·   Simulation D: Project site conditions under existing flows and 48-inch RCP removed;
    ·   Simulation E: Future full watershed build-out flows under existing site conditions;
    ·   Simulation F: Full build-out flows with project conditions;
    ·   Simulation G: Full build-out flows under existing site conditions and removal of 48-inch
        RCP; and
    ·   Simulation H: Full build-out flows under project site conditions and removal of 48-inch
        RCP.

A matrix summarizing the site and flow conditions for Simulations A through H is presented as
Table 6. The 48-inch culvert is located off-site, immediately upstream of the St. John's project
site. Because the RCP is in poor condition it will likely need to be replaced during the lifetime
of the proposed downstream project bridge. Observations in early May 2010 indicate that the
outfall of the culvert is being undermined due to erosion and the eastern headwall bank is
experiencing active erosion to the extent that the slope was covered in heavy plastic. Therefore,
simulations were completed that considered removing the RCP and associated channel fill
constriction in order to evaluate how this would affect the downstream project reach. We are not
aware of when and how the culvert will be replaced. For purposes of this analysis, we simply
assume the culvert is removed and replaced with an earthen channel having a similar channel
geometry to the up- and down-stream conditions. No other technical analysis of this RCP
replacement is plausible as part of this investigation.



Table 6. Hydraulic model simulation matrix.
                                                                        Upstream 48-inch RCP
  Simulation          Site Condition              Flow Condition              Condition
                                                          Full-Build-
                 Existing        Project      Existing         out      In-place     Removed
        A           X                            X                         X
        B                          X             X                         X
        C           X                            X                                      X
        D                          X             X                                      X
        E           X                                           X          X
        F                          X                            X          X
        G           X                                           X                       X
        H                          X                            X                       X




                                                 10
2.1    Model Development
Hydraulic simulations of Temescal Creek were completed using the U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers HEC-RAS hydraulic model. The hydraulic model requires input parameters of
channel geometry, channel roughness, channel slope, and flow rates. A detailed survey of this
reach provided model input geometry and cross-sections within the creek channel. On December
13, 2004, KHE surveyed six channel cross-sections and the longitudinal channel profile within
Temescal Creek adjacent to St. John's Church property. Surveyed cross-sections are located
downstream of the 48-inch reinforced concrete culvert (RCP) beneath a private driveway
accessing Thornhill Drive near the northeastern end of the Church property. The creek was
inaccessible upstream of the culvert, so cross-section geometry was estimated based on the
rectangular concrete form of the channel at this location. Information provided by the City of
Oakland indicates a tributary drainage channel joins the creek along the south bank
approximately 100-feet upstream of the 48-inch RCP.4 Based on field reconnaissance in 2009 by
KHE, there does not appear to be any change in channel and site conditions since the 2004
survey. Geometry for the project model is presented in Figure 4.

In order to accurately locate the 25-foot wide proposed bridge deck into the hydraulic model,
surveyed cross-sections closest to the upstream and downstream edges of the bridge were
duplicated at those locations. Surveyed cross-section 2 at Station 146 was duplicated 10 feet
upstream to create Station 156 (upstream edge of bridge). Surveyed cross-section 3 at Station
117 was duplicated 3 feet and 13 feet upstream to create Stations 130 (downstream edge of
bridge) and 120. The proposed project model geometry includes creek widening and slope
stabilization efforts at Stations 156 and 130 to account for the bioengineering modifications to
the banks beneath the bridge (see Figure 6).

Manning's roughness estimates ranged from 0.017 to 0.1. Values were based on: roughness
estimate values recommended in the County's hydrology and hydraulics criteria manual; field
observations and manning roughness estimate methods outlined by Arcement and Schneider
(1989); comparison to published values in a available reports (Barnes, 1967; Chow, 1959;
Limerinos, 1970; and Coon, 1998); and KHE staff field and hydraulic modeling experience. No
data was available to calibrate the model although there was examination of model sensitivity to
roughness coefficients. Roughness coefficients are summarized in Appendix B.

Model simulations were performed under a subcritical flow regime. There is insufficient
information available to evaluate flow under a mixed subcritical/super critical flow regime
because of prohibited access to the upstream property (upstream of 48-inch RCP) to collect the
necessary channel survey information. A normal depth slope of 0.025 was used as the
downstream model boundary condition.

2.2     Model Simulation Results
The results of hydraulic model simulations are provided in the following text and figures. A
more complete tabulation of model simulation results are provided in Appendix B. Following a
full discussion of all Simulation A design flow results, text will focus on simulation results for
the 2- and 100-year floods. Not only do these events bracket the simulation flow extremes; a)
the 2-year flood is commonly believed to represent the dominant channel discharge and
represents the single flow magnitude that best controls long term channel evolution and form;

4
  This tributary channel drainage area is included in the estimate of all peak flows as described in Section 1.0 of this
report. This tributary drainage imparts no other influence on the study reach.

                                                          11
and b) the 100-year flow represents the bridge design flow (estimated bride life-span), which
should be passed without impacting the bridge or surrounding channel. Also, discussions of
results for Simulations B through H are compared to Simulation A, existing conditions.

Simulation A - Existing Conditions:
Model results indicate that all floods, including the 100-year event, are contained within the
channel banks through the project reach (see Figure 5). Water levels for each of the simulated
flood flows at each model cross-section are also presented in Figure 6. Upstream of the project,
peak flows from the 5-year and greater floods submerge the existing 48-inch RCP and overtop
the existing driveway before re-entering the creek downstream.

Because of the backwater conditions created by the RCP constriction, velocities immediately
upstream of driveway are about 1-foot per second (ft/s) during the 2-year flood and about 2-ft/s
during the 100-year event. Exiting the RCP, velocities range from 6- to 9-ft/s and quickly slow
to 3- to 4.5-ft/s, likely in response to energy losses as water flows into the large scoured out
plunge pool that has formed downstream of the RCP. Flow velocities accelerate downstream of
the plunge pool and RCP, increasing to a maximum ranging from approximately 9- to 11-ft/s at
station 117 (cross-section 3) where the channel is a relatively narrow slot, likely controlled by a
downstream constriction created by footings supporting a small utility crossing at station 93 (see
Figure 5 and Figure 6). Downstream of station 117, simulated flow velocities range from 5.5- to
9-ft/s during the 2-year flood and 7.5- to 11-ft/s during the 100-year flood.




                                                12
Figure 4. Site plan and model geometry.




                                          13
Figure 5. Simulation A: Graphics comparing simulated 2- through 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions.

                                                   14
Figure 6. Simulation A vs. B: Cross-sectional profiles of simulated 2- through 100-year flood water surfaces
for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions. See Figure 4 for cross-section locations.

                                                     15
Figure 6 (continued). Simulation A vs. B: Cross-sectional profiles of simulated 2- through 100-year flood
water surfaces for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions. See Figure 4 for cross-section locations.

                                                       16
Figure 6 (continued). Simulation A vs. B: Cross-sectional profiles of simulated 2- through 100-year flood
water surfaces for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions. See Figure 4 for cross-section locations.

                                                       17
Figure 6 (continued). Simulation A vs. B: Cross-sectional profiles of simulated 2- through 100-year flood
water surfaces for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions. See Figure 4 for cross-section locations.

                                                       18
Figure 6 (continued). Simulation A vs. B: Cross-sectional profiles of simulated 2- through 100-year flood
water surfaces for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions. See Figure 4 for cross-section locations.



Run B ­ Project Conditions:
Only minor changes to water surface elevations were observed when comparing simulated
existing and project conditions when using existing-conditions flow rates (see Figure 7). The
minor differences, an approximately 1-foot rise in water level at the downstream end of the
proposed bridge, are the result of manipulation of surveyed cross-sections within the model in
order to accommodate the proposed bridge; construction of the project does not increase runoff
to Temescal Creek and estimated creek flows do not change relative to existing conditions. As
part of bridge installation, it is anticipated that the underlying channel banks will be widened in
order to alleviate over-steepened and unstable conditions. Bioengineering techniques will be
used to stabilize these altered banks as described in Section 3.2, below. The changes in channel
cross-sections beneath the bridge are presented on Figure 6. A design condition of the proposed
bridge is that it provides 2-feet of freeboard between 100-year flood level and bridge soffit (see
Figures 6 and 7). Results also indicate that there will be no significant backwater effects or
changes in water levels upstream of the project bridge that would adversely impact the upstream
culvert and associated bank erosion.

Because of the increased channel width and conveyance capacity beneath the proposed bridge,
there is a notable decrease in flow velocities when compared to existing conditions (see Figure
7). Beneath the bridge, velocities are reduced by 1- to 4-ft/s for both the 2- and 100-year floods.
Project velocities are slightly elevated above existing conditions immediately upstream of the
bridge. Simulated project velocities don't change relative to existing conditions at any other
location along the project reach.

Run C ­ Existing Conditions and Removal of RCP:
Removal of the RCP essentially eliminates the backwater effect that elevates water levels
upstream of the RCP under existing conditions (Figure 8). This also leads to increased flow
velocities upstream of the culvert to within the range experienced downstream of the RCP; 2-
year flood velocities increase to between approximately 6- and 8-cfs as opposed to 1-ft/s under
existing conditions and 100-flood velocities increase to between 8- and 11-ft/s as opposed to 2-
                                                       19
Figure 7. Simulation B: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions vs. proposed project conditions.

                                                   20
Figure 8. Simulation C: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions vs. existing conditions with upstream 48-inch RCP removed.

                                                     21
ft/s when the RCP is present. There is no predicted change in creek water levels and velocities
downstream of RCP location (Figure 8).

Run D ­ Project Conditions and Removal of RCP: Removal of the RCP under project
conditions leads to the same changes in water level and flow velocity upstream of the RCP as
simulated under existing conditions (Figure 9). Simulated water levels and velocities
downstream of the RCP do not differ from those simulated under project conditions (RCP
remaining; Run B, Figure 7).

Run E ­ Full Build-out Flows under Existing Site Conditions:
Simulating future full build-out flows under onsite existing conditions produces slightly greater
water surface elevations, increasing from 0.2 to 0.3-feet under the 2-year flood and from 0.1- to
0.3-feet under the 100-year flood event through the project reach downstream of the RCP (Figure
10). With the exception of a 1.7-foot higher simulated water surface elevation for the 2-year
flood, simulated increases in water levels for design floods upstream of the RCP are the same
magnitude as those simulated downstream.

Slightly higher velocities for the 100-year flood were simulated, ranging from a decrease of 0.1-
ft/s to an increase of 0.3-ft/s when compared to the existing conditions simulations (Run A)
while velocities for the 2-year flood decreased by about 0.3-ft/s upstream of the RCP and
increased slightly by 0- to 0.4-ft/s downstream of the RCP.


Run F- Full Build-out Flows with Project Conditions:
Similar to Run E, small increases in water surface elevation accompany the increase in flow rate,
with the exception of the 2 year water surface elevation upstream of the 48-inch RCP, which
increases by 1.7 feet (Figure 11). Water surface elevations downstream of the RCP increase
between 0- and 0.3-feet under the 2-year flood and from 0.1- to 0.3-feet under the 100-year
flood. These results indicate that there will be no significant backwater effects or changes in
water levels upstream of the project bridge that would adversely impact the upstream culvert and
associated bank erosion that wouldn't already occur under a No Project alternative.

Velocity fluctuates between a decrease of 0.6 feet/second and an increase of 0.4 feet per second.
The proposed bridge remains 1.8 feet above the future build-out peak 100 year water surface
elevation.

Run G - Full Build-out Flows under Existing Conditions and Removal of 48" RCP:
With the upstream culvert removed, upstream water surface elevations decrease and channel
velocities increase, similar to Run C (Figure 12). Water surface elevations and velocities are
slightly higher due to the larger volume of water expected under full build-out flows.

Run H - Full Build-out Flows under Project Conditions and Removal of 48" RCP:
Similar to Run D, future build-out flows in Temescal Creek with the upstream culvert removed
results in an upstream drop in water levels and increase of velocities coupled with an overall
increase of water surface elevations due to the higher future build-out flows (Figure 13).

2.3    Summary and Discussion of Results
The County alternative requirements for bridge freeboard are: a) the design (25-year) storm
provides 2-feet of freeboard from bridge soffit (top of underside of bridge) or b) the bridge
                                                22
provide 100-year storm capacity. As demonstrated in hydraulic model runs, the project reach
and proposed bridge satisfy the County freeboard requirements.

Hydraulic model results indicate that construction of the proposed project would lead to minor
fluctuation in water level and modest reductions in flow velocity restricted to the project bridge
vicinity. None of these changes would lead to adverse channel instability or increased flood
hazard either upstream or downstream of the project site. Work to lay-back the channel banks
and complete bioengineering measures along the banks beneath the bridge (described in Section
3.2 below) would, in tandem with lower flow velocities, lead to improved channel stability.
Future development within the watershed will lead to increases in flood flow magnitude between
7- and 16-percent. This will lead to minor (less than 0.25-feet) rise in the flood levels and flow
velocities (the majority of channel will experience velocity increase of 0.1-ft/s and up to 0.5-ft/s
around Station 120 during the 2-year flood. Construction of the project will not accentuate or
exacerbate these changes beyond the magnitudes experienced under existing flow conditions,
including at the upstream culvert and associated eroding bank. Removal of the RCP only affects
water levels and velocities upstream of its position, eliminating the backwater flooding but
increasing flow velocities to comparable speeds currently experienced downstream through the
project reach. There were no simulated changes in water level or velocity through the project
reach when removing the RCP. Increased velocities upstream of the RCP probably will not
instigate channel instabilities off-site as the upstream reach is a concrete reinforced rectangular
channel.




                                                23
Figure 9. Simulation D: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing vs. proposed project conditions with upstream 48-inch RCP removed.

                                                     24
Figure 10. Simulation E: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions vs. future (full build-out) conditions.

                                                   25
Figure 11. Simulation F: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions vs. future (full build-out) project conditions.

                                                   26
Figure 12. Simulation G: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing vs. future (full build-out) conditions with 48-inch RCP removed.

                                                    27
Figure 13. Simulation H: Graphics comparing simulated 2- and 100-year flood water surface (upper) and
velocity profiles (lower) for existing conditions vs. future (full build-out) project conditions with upstream 48-
inch RCP removed.

                                                       28
                              3.0    CREEK BANK STABILITY

3.1       Creek Bank Stability (Existing Conditions):
The east side of the creek is underlain by alluvial and colluvial soils which primarily consist of
stiff silty to sandy clays; bedrock was encountered at a depth of about 17 feet (Land Marine,
2005). The colluvium/alluvium on the east side of the creek is relatively resistant to erosion and
has moderate cohesive strength. Existing creek slopes on the east side are generally moderate,
typically on the order of 2:1 (horizontal to vertical) and exhibit few signs of instability. The
stream channel deposits along the west side of the creek contain layers of loose silty and clayey
sand and gravels. These soils are susceptible to erosion and strength loss due to seepage during
and following significant high flow events, as well as during strong seismic shaking.

The west side of the creek is underlain by a surficial layer of fat silty clay which extends to a
depth about 3 feet. The surface clay is in turn underlain by loose silty and clayey sand and
gravels which extend to bedrock at a depth of about 22 feet. The sandy soils on the west side of
the creek are highly susceptible to erosion and to liquefaction during seismic shaking (Land
Marine, 2005). There are numerous historic slope failures on the west side of the creek bank
resulting in near vertical slopes in several areas [near vertical bank sections were observed in
cross-sections 1 (Station 185), 4 (Station 83), and 5 (Station 60)]. Cross-sections 2 (Station 146),
3 (Station 117) and Station 156 exhibit a lower terrace on the right (west) bank, with elevations
between three and six feet below the upper right bank (see Figure 6).

Due to the above-mentioned soil structure, the observed lower terraced bank between stations
117 and 156 may be the result of soil slump (Land Marine, 2005). Some of the bank failures on
the west side of the creek are located in areas experiencing impinging flow associated with the
local bends of the creek. Generally the creek bed is about 10 feet below the level of Thornhill
Drive and setback 40 to 50 feet from the edge of roadway. However, between approximately
station 63 and 83, the top of creek bank is as little as 5-feet from the edge of roadway. Future
erosion and creek bank instability could potentially affect the roadway in this area, however this
is a preexisting condition and the project is not anticipated to accelerate or alter this condition.
As indicated above, an alternative to stabilize this bank as part of the project was proposed and
evaluated, but the RWQCB and, in part, the City determined this action was undesirable.
Neighbors were also concerned about additional tree loss that would accompany this alternative.
Construction of the project will not interfere or limit any future repairs of this bank if such a
repair is deemed necessary in the future.

There appears to be active erosion under and adjacent to the upstream (off-site) culvert. As of
early May 2010, the slope to the east of the culvert and lying beneath the adjacent property
driveway was covered in heavy plastic, an action typically implemented to protect actively
eroding banks. This is a preexisting condition and the project is not anticipated to accelerate or
alter this condition.

Existing-conditions creek velocities and shear stress throughout the reach for the range of storm
recurrence intervals indicate the capability for coarse gravel and cobble mobilization within the
creek bed. The upstream culvert currently reduces flow rates (and therefore velocities and shear
stresses) upstream of the culvert; removal of this culvert will not alter the velocities occurring
below the culvert location.



                                                29
Placement of the proposed bridge footings would be outside the flow lines for all design flows.
Project geotechnical engineers (Land/Marine, 2005) recommend that, at a minimum the effects
of creek bank instability should be taken into account in the design of the bridge foundations and
abutment walls. Specifically, the abutment walls should extend below an imaginary line
projected upward from the creek bottom at an inclination of 2.5:1. In addition, the bridge should
be supported on drilled pier foundations that derive their vertical and lateral support below the
potentially unstable soils.

A tree fall below cross-section 3 (Station 117) was observed and acts as a flow control structure,
likely increasing erosion potential during high flow events. This tree is decaying rapidly and will
be removed during non-native vegetation removal efforts to alleviate the erosion potential.

The bed of the creek generally consists of alternating bars of coarse grained material, dominated
by concrete and brick rubble, interspersed with gravel bars containing finer-grained sand and
gravel and some small pools. The regular occurrence of dense accumulations of coarse-grained
debris effectively acts as grade control structures. These structures in association with the fixed
culvert inlet elevations both up- and downstream, act to prevent further channel incision.

3.2     Creek Bank Stability (Proposed Project Conditions):
During the preliminary project assessment and design phase, considerable channel bank
stabilization measures were recommended to ameliorate the unstable conditions described above.
In general, these measures consisted of considerable earthwork to realign the creek and create
more stable channel bank slopes. However, based on conversations with PGA Design, the State
Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) and City of Oakland staff, there was a stated
desire that the project not significantly alter the morphology of the creek out of fear that such
dramatic channel grading and realignment would lead to future chronic creek destabilization.
Removal of concrete and brick rubble and debris may help to beautify the creek, but is not
recommended as it may reactivate incision and destabilize existing creek banks. Therefore, the
RWQCB requested that all construction activities in the creek channel be avoided where not
absolutely necessary in order to minimize disturbance to the creek channel.

In compliance with RWQCB desires, the only significant modifications to the creek channel are
proposed along the banks beneath and immediately upstream/downstream of the proposed bridge
crossing (see Sheet CR-1 in Appendix C). As indicated above, this work includes laying back
currently over-steepened banks and stabilizing the exposed slopes using bioengineering
techniques. Bridge installation will not reduce the cross-sectional flow area of the creek.
Instead, laying back the underlying banks and stabilization through bioengineering methods will
lead to increased flow conveyance, lower velocities, and amelioration of the existing eroding
slump block discussed above.

Beneath the proposed bridge, a combination of bioengineering techniques stabilize the creek
banks, provide habitat and erosion protection, and prevent scour of the bridge support structure.
Disturbance beneath the bridge footprint during construction provides a localized opportunity to
widen the channel, producing an area of reduced flow velocity as discussed above.

The bioengineered slope to be reconstructed under the bridge will consist of a layered system.
The lower portion of the creek banks will be stabilized using an elongated box-like interlocking
log structure backfilled with rock and soil called a live crib wall (see Figure 14). The base of the
live crib wall is keyed into the slopes and extends from 1- to 2-feet below the existing streambed
                                                 30
(or deeper pending design scour analysis). The top of the crib wall will be constructed to the
elevation of the 2-year flood water level. The long sides of the log box run parallel to the
channel centerline and shorter axis perpendicular to the creek centerline (see Sheet CR-1 in
Appendix C). The crib wall and overlying treatment will extend approximately 10- to 20-feet
both up- and down-stream of the bridge (or further if engineering design determines it necessary)
to provide a smooth transition between modified bank (under bridge) and existing channel banks.
Some minor adjustments to the structure and/or channel upstream of the bridge may be
necessary. In order to accommodate the smooth transition upstream of the bridge, the
bioengineered banks would transition into the rubble lined channel that lines the existing bank
downstream of the 48-inch culvert.




Figure 14. Conceptual design of proposed bioengineering treatments (live crib wall and vegetated soil lifts)
under proposed new bridge based on downstream bridge cross-section at Sta. 131.




Courses of logs are placed at right angles on top of the previous course, overhanging by six
inches, and secured to the preceding course with nails or rebar. Coarse rock fill lines the lowest
course of the structure and is placed along the front of the structure in order to fill the gaps
between logs along the structure's face and prevent loss of backfill though the log gaps. Finer
granular rock and organic backfill is placed along the back of the structure to provide a suitable
growing medium for the layers of live branch cuttings placed on each course perpendicular to the
slope, creating a live crib wall. Additional log layers are added to a maximum structure height of
approximately six feet, so the top face of the crib wall corresponds to the 2-year water surface
elevation.

Above the live crib wall, vegetated soil lifts are constructed with erosion control fabric to
provide erosion protection while installed vegetation is established. The fabric forms individual
soil lifts, typically 1-foot tall, and filled with fine grained soils. Each lift is secured with wooden
stakes and overlain with woody plant cuttings. The lifts are placed so as to create bank slopes no

                                                      31
steeper than 2-foot horizontal to 1-foot vertical (2H:1V) up to the height of the 100-year flood
level.

Vegetation incorporated into the live crib wall and soil lifts under the bridge will consist of
native, shade tolerant species (e.g., Snowberry, Creek dogwood, etc.) while willows will be used
beyond the up- and down-stream limits of the bridge deck where there is more sunlight. There
will likely be an area under the bridge that is shaded to a degree that little if any vegetation will
grow. For this reason, the log crib wall structure was selected as it will provide sufficient
erosion protection and bank stability without the need for vegetation. Similarly, the geotextile
encapsulated soil lifts above the crib wall will provide sufficient bank stability in shaded areas
devoid of vegetation. It is anticipated that vegetation will thrive along the deck margins under
the bridge where it receives adequate sunlight. Based on post-project vegetation and geomorphic
monitoring that will be conducted after project construction, adaptive management measures
may be warranted to improve vegetation conditions (e.g., change is species) and/or bank
instabilities within the project reach.

Additional information and photographs of live crib walls and vegetated soil lifts may be
obtained in the following publications:

   ·   Washington State Aquatic Habitat Guidelines Program, Integrated Streambank Protection
       Guidelines, 2003 (http://wdfw.wa.gov/hab/ahg/ispgdoc.htm); and

   ·   U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service, Streambank and Shoreline Protection,
       National Engineering Field Handbook, Part 650, Chapter 16, 1996.

Other recommendations to improve channel bank stability while minimizing disturbance
includes repositioning existing large concrete debris within and around the large plunge pool to
stabilize this feature below the existing 48-inch culvert. No additional material would be
imported and added, this action would simply attempt to improve the stability of the existing
materials. Material would be placed in an integrated fashion to create a smooth transition with
the upstream end of the log crib wall.




                                                 32
             4.0     ADDITIONAL HYDROLOGY REPORT INFORMATION

Impact of Proposed Work to Direction of Flow:
The only modification to the existing creek banks is beneath the proposed bridge. These banks
will be reconstructed with equal or lesser exposure to creek flow. Where exposed to creek
erosion, the restored bank is less susceptible to erosion than the existing earthen bank ­
especially along the softer and unstable west channel bank. The proposed bridge work will not
adversely alter or redirect creek flow.

Upstream and Downstream Conditions (Before and After Project Construction):
Temescal Creek flows within culverts both upstream and downstream of the project area. The
creek enters the project site at the outfall of an existing 48-inch culvert owned and maintained by
a private residence. Upstream of this culvert, the creek flows in a concrete lined channel for at
least a couple hundred feet. Downstream of the project reach, the creek flows along
approximately 80-feet of rubble and vegetation armored channel before entering a buried storm
drain.

The conditions upstream and downstream of the project area will not be affected in any way by
the proposed project. The abutments to the proposed bridge shall be placed outside of the 100-
year flood water surface elevation.

Location of Major Drainage Facilities:
A 48-inch diameter RCP culvert spans the driveway immediately upstream from the project.
Upstream of the culvert, the creek flows within a rectangular concrete lined channel.
Approximately 80-feet below the St. John's Church reach, the creek once again enters into a
culvert beneath Alhambra Road.

Cross Sections:
Ground surface profiles and simulated flood levels at selected cross-sections are illustrated in
Figures 5 through 13 (cross-section locations are indicted on Figure 4). Additional cross-
sections not surveyed reflect the location of the proposed bridge.

Proposed Improvements/Mitigation to the Creek:
Removal of vegetation for the installation of the proposed bridge will be replaced with native
vegetation in appropriate locations (i.e. riparian, upland). Restoration and revegetation will
include planting of trees, understory vegetation, and shrubs to provide habitat, shade, creek bank
stability and erosion control. PGA Design has developed extensive plans and lists indicating
vegetation to be removed, vegetation suitable for preservation, and native vegetation to be
planted. A total of seven (7) selected design sheets presenting the bridge bank treatment and tree
preservation and replanting plans are included as Appendix C. In order to minimize soil
disturbance, trees will be cut 6-inches above finished grade, retaining all root masses The
revegetation plan will serve to increase the health of the landscape, including the natural
stabilization of creek banks without the need for grading or channel disturbance.

Vegetation Analysis
Vegetation removal, including existing trees, shrubs and groundcovers will reduce the overall
tree canopy in the vicinity of the proposed bridge, but will have minimal effect on the shading of
the creek and adjacent banks. As shown on Figures CR-2 and CR-3 (Attachment C), the removal
of 9 trees to construct the new bridge will reduce the existing tree canopy cover over the creek by
                                                33
approximately one third. The remaining trees plus two additional trees, however, will continue
to shade the creek and banks, allowing for some increase in filter light throughout the day. Most
of the shading loss will occur from the removal of trees 9, 10, 11, and 12 on the west bank. On
the east bank, the removal of trees 1, 2, 7, 24 and 55 will result in little net loss of shading due to
remaining shade cover from the bridge and remaining trees along the bank. Two large canopied
trees, as identified on the planting plan L2-1 (Appendix C), will ultimately grow to sufficient
size to replace the canopy on the north side of the bridge. In addition, the initial increase in
sunlight near the bridge will allow the newly planted native species to become established.

The entire creek corridor will be planted with native understory species, as shown on the planting
plan sheets L2-1 and L2-2 (Appendix C). Given that most to the existing plants within the creek
corridor are non-native, exotic species, the proposed plantings will greatly increase habitat value
along the creek within the project area.

Impact on Existing Vegetation or Wildlife within Affected Riparian Corridor:
Despite its location in the upper watershed, Temescal Creek is an urban creek with several non-
native riparian vegetation species. The project will help to remove some non-native species,
reduce crowding and fire-prone materials, and plant native species where appropriate.
Introduction of gravel and crushed granite into the parking area allows water to percolate into the
ground while reducing dirt and chemical exposure to the creek. A temporary impact to urban
wildlife in the area may be experienced during construction, but reintroduction of native plant
species will increase the overall habitat value of the creek corridor, which is currently dominated
by non-native species, providing higher-quality habitat post construction.




                                                  34
                                     5.0    REFERENCES
Arcement, G.J., Jr., and Schneider, V.R., 1989, Guide for selecting Manning's roughness
   coefficients for natural channels and flood plains. U.S. Geological Survey Water Supply
   Paper 2339, prepared in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal
   Highway Administration, 38p.

Barnes, H.H., 1967, Rougness characteristics of natural channels. U.S. Geological Survey Water
   Supply Paper 1849, 213p.

Chow, V.T., Open-channel hydraulics. McGraw-Hill, Inc., New York, 680p.

City of Oakland California, GIS zoning map, parcel map, and Alameda County Assessor's Use
    Codes, received December 2009.

Coon, W.F., 1998, Estimation of roughness coefficients for natural stream channels with
   vegetated banks. U.S. Geological Survey Water Supply Paper 2441, prepared in cooperation
   with the New York State Department of Transportation, 133p.

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Flood Insurance Study, Alameda County,
   California, and Incorporated Areas, August 03, 2009.

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Flood Insurance Study, City of Oakland,
   California, Alameda County, August 16, 1982.

Kamman Hydrology & Engineering, Inc., Survey of Temescal Creek at St. John's Episcopal
  Church property, December 13, 2004.

Land Marine Geotechnics, Geotechnical Investigation, St. John's Episcopal Church Entry Road,
   Bridge Parking and New Sanctuary, May 2005.

Limerinos, J.T., 1970, Determination of the Manning coefficient from measured bed roughness
   in natural channels. U.S. Geological Survey Water Supply Paper 1898-B, 47p.

PGA Design, Personal Communication with Isabelle Minn, September 9, 2009.

Rantz, S.E., Precipitation Depth-Duration-Frequency Relations for the San Francisco Bay
   Region, California, U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 750-C, 1971.

Sandis Engineers, St. John's Episcopal Church Stormwater Hydrology Calculations, September
   4, 2009.

U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service, Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds (TR-
   55), June 1986.

U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service, Streambank and Shoreline Protection
   National Engineering Field Handbook, Part 650, Chapter 16, 1996.

Washington State Aquatic Habitat Guidelines Program, Integrated Streambank Protection
  Guidelines, 2003 (http://wdfw.wa.gov/hab/ahg/ispgdoc.htm).
                                              35
                Appendix A
Sandis Engineers On-Site Runoff Calculations




                     36
     Appendix B:
HEC-RAS Modeling Results




           37
A. Existing Conditions, existing flows                      B. Proposed Conditions existing flows                        C. Existing Conditions existing flows, no culvert       D. Proposed Conditions, existing flows, no culvert
River Statio
           Frctn (n/K)   LOB        Channel   ROB           River Statio
                                                                       Frctn (n/K)  LOB       Channel     ROB            River StatioFrctn (n/K)  LOB       Channel      ROB     River StatioFrctn (n/K) LOB        Channel     ROB
   260          n        0.022       0.017    0.022            260          n      0.022       0.017      0.022             260           n      0.022       0.017       0.022      260           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   220          n        0.022       0.017    0.022            220          n      0.022       0.017      0.022             220           n      0.022       0.017       0.022      220           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   207          n        0.022       0.017    0.022            207          n      0.022       0.017      0.022             207           n      0.022       0.017       0.022      207           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   206       Culvert                                           206       Culvert
   195          n        0.07        0.045    0.07             195          n       0.07       0.045       0.07             195         n         0.07       0.045      0.07        195         n         0.07      0.045       0.07
   185          n        0.07        0.045    0.07             185          n       0.07       0.045       0.07             185         n         0.07       0.045      0.07        185         n         0.07      0.045       0.07
   166          n        0.05        0.035    0.05             166          n       0.05       0.035       0.05             166         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        166         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   156          n        0.05        0.035    0.05             156          n       0.05       0.035       0.05             156         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        156         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   146          n        0.05        0.035    0.05                                                                          146         n         0.05       0.035      0.05
                                                               131       Bridge                                                                                                     131      Bridge
                                                               130          n        0.05      0.035       0.05                                                                     130         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   120         n         0.05      0.035      0.05             120          n        0.05      0.035       0.05             120         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        120         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   117         n         0.05      0.035      0.05             117          n        0.05      0.035       0.05             117         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        117         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   83          n         0.05      0.035      0.1              83           n        0.05      0.035       0.1              83          n         0.05       0.035      0.1         83          n         0.05      0.035       0.1
   60          n         0.05      0.035      0.1              60           n        0.05      0.035       0.1              60          n         0.05       0.035      0.1         60          n         0.05      0.035       0.1
   21          n         0.1       0.035      0.1              21           n        0.1       0.035       0.1              21          n         0.1        0.035       0.1         21         n          0.1      0.035        0.1

E. Existing condtions, buildout flows                       F. Proposed Conditions, buildout flows                       G. Existing Conditions, buildout flows, no culvert      H. Proposed Conditions, buildout flows, no culvert
River StatioFrctn (n/K)   LOB       Channel   ROB           River StatioFrctn (n/K) LOB        Channel    ROB            River StatioFrctn (n/K)  LOB        Channel      ROB    River StatioFrctn (n/K) LOB       Channel      ROB
   260           n       0.022       0.017    0.022            260           n      0.022       0.017     0.022             260           n       0.022       0.017      0.022      260           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   220           n       0.022       0.017    0.022            220           n      0.022       0.017     0.022             220           n       0.022       0.017      0.022      220           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   207           n       0.022       0.017    0.022            207           n      0.022       0.017     0.022             207           n       0.022       0.017      0.022      207           n      0.022       0.017      0.022
   206       Culvert                                           206       Culvert                                            195           n        0.07       0.045       0.07      195           n       0.07       0.045       0.07
   195           n        0.07       0.045    0.07             195           n      0.07        0.045      0.07             185           n       0.07        0.045       0.07      185           n      0.07        0.045       0.07
   185           n        0.07       0.045    0.07             185           n      0.07        0.045      0.07             166           n       0.05        0.035       0.05      166           n      0.05        0.035       0.05
   166           n        0.05       0.035    0.05             166           n      0.05        0.035      0.05             156           n       0.05        0.035       0.05      156           n      0.05        0.035       0.05
   156           n        0.05       0.035    0.05             156           n      0.05        0.035      0.05             146           n       0.05        0.035       0.05      131        Bridge
                                                               131        Bridge                                                                                                    130           n       0.05       0.035       0.05
   146         n         0.05      0.035      0.05             130           n      0.05        0.035      0.05
   120         n         0.05      0.035      0.05             120           n      0.05        0.035      0.05             120         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        120         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   117         n         0.05      0.035      0.05             117           n      0.05        0.035      0.05             117         n         0.05       0.035      0.05        117         n         0.05      0.035       0.05
   83          n         0.05      0.035      0.1               83           n      0.05        0.035      0.1              83          n         0.05       0.035      0.1         83          n         0.05      0.035       0.1
   60          n         0.05      0.035      0.1               60           n      0.05        0.035      0.1              60          n         0.05       0.035      0.1         60          n         0.05      0.035       0.1
   21          n         0.1       0.035      0.1               21           n       0.1        0.035      0.1              21          n         0.1        0.035       0.1         21         n          0.1      0.035        0.1

260, 220, 207: upstream concrete channel, Channel n=0.017, OB n=0.022
206 Upstream Culvert (not shown in table) n=0.011
195, 185: pool area upstream of proposed bridge, Channel n=0.045 (rubble), OB n=0.07 heavy vegetation
166, 156, 146, 130, 120, 117: Channel n=0.035 (natural bottom + rubble), OB n=0.05 (less dense vegetation, modified vegetation)
83, 60: Channel n=0.035 (natural bottom + rubble), LOB n=0.05 (less dense vegetation), ROB n=0.1 (soil slump adjacent to Thornhill Drive)
21: Channel n=0.035 (natural bottom + rubble), OB n=0.1 (soil slump)
                                                                 Simulation A: Existing Site and Flow Conditions
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan    Q Total      Min Ch El   W.S. Elev     Crit W.S.  E.G. Elev   E.G. Slope   Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)    (cfs)          (ft)         (ft)         (ft)        (ft)       (ft/ft)    (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr         0.01       139          593.23       601.22                  601.24     0.000056      1.27       109.44       32.98       0.12
St John's Church     260        5 Yr         0.01       231          593.23        603.4                  603.42     0.000029      1.18       217.51        69         0.09
St John's Church     260       10 Yr         0.01       306          593.23       603.69                  603.72      0.00004      1.45       237.74        69         0.11
St John's Church     260       25 Yr         0.02       392          593.23       603.81                  603.86      0.00006      1.81       245.76        69         0.14
St John's Church     260       50 Yr         0.02       474          593.23       604.08                  604.14     0.000073      2.05       264.34        69         0.15
St John's Church     260       100 Yr        0.02       530          593.23       604.24                  604.31     0.000082      2.21       275.62        69         0.16

St John's Church     220        2 Yr        0.01        139           591.6      601.22                   601.24     0.000028      0.95       147.16       40.64       0.08
St John's Church     220        5 Yr         0          231           591.6       603.4                   603.42     0.000016      0.96       269.06        69         0.07
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.01        306           591.6      603.7                    603.72     0.000023      1.2        289.41        69         0.08
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.01        392           591.6      603.82                   603.85     0.000035      1.5        297.63        69         0.1
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.01        474           591.6      604.09                   604.13     0.000044      1.71       316.34        69         0.12
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.02        530           591.6      604.25                   604.3      0.00005       1.86       327.71        69         0.12

St John's Church     207        2 Yr        0.01        139           591.6      601.22       593.41      601.24     0.000028      0.95       147.15       40.64       0.08
St John's Church     207        5 Yr         0          231           591.6       603.4       594.14      603.42     0.000016      0.96       269.05        69         0.07
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.01        306           591.6      603.7        594.67      603.72     0.000023      1.2        289.39        69         0.08
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.01        392           591.6      603.82       595.22      603.85     0.000035      1.5        297.6         69         0.1
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.01        474           591.6      604.09        595.7      604.13     0.000044      1.71       316.3         69         0.12
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.02        530           591.6      604.25       596.02      604.3      0.00005       1.86       327.66        69         0.12

St John's Church     206                   Culvert

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        2.14        139           591.6      593.73       593.41      594.39      0.02296      6.53       21.27         10         0.79
St John's Church     195        5 Yr         2          231           591.6      595.07       594.13      595.76     0.015682      6.67       34.65         10         0.63
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.16        306           591.6      595.93       594.68       596.7     0.014933      7.07       43.27         10          0.6
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.49        392           591.6      596.7        595.23      597.61     0.015792      7.69       50.96         10          0.6
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.03        474           591.6      597.15       595.71      598.28     0.018446      8.54       55.48         10         0.64
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       3.56        530           591.6      597.37       596.04      598.67     0.023233      9.15       57.91        12.34       0.74

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.38        139          589.83      594.04       592.15      594.17     0.002567      2.99        46.55       16.08       0.31
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.44        231          589.83      595.38       592.81      595.55     0.002302      3.32        69.56       18.15        0.3
St John's Church     185       10 Yr        0.47        306          589.83      596.29       593.27      596.48     0.002205      3.53        86.67       19.54        0.3
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.52        392          589.83      597.14       593.75      597.36     0.002211      3.78        103.8       20.85        0.3
St John's Church     185       50 Yr         0.6        474          589.83      597.71       594.15      597.97     0.002395      4.09       115.95       21.72       0.31
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.66        530          589.83      598.03       594.38      598.31     0.002556      4.31       122.93       22.21       0.32

St John's Church     166        2 Yr        0.88        139          590.34      593.58       592.87      594.06     0.007746      5.55        25.05       10.07       0.62
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        0.82        231          590.34      594.98       593.63      595.45     0.006216      5.52        41.82       14.18       0.57
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.76        306          590.34      595.93       594.19       596.4     0.004735      5.48        56.28       20.01        0.5
St John's Church     166       25 Yr         0.7        392          590.34      596.84        594.9      597.28     0.003655      5.41        78.42       25.73       0.45
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.72        474          590.34      597.44       595.32      597.89     0.003428      5.59        94.14       27.31       0.45
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.75        530          590.34      597.76       595.59      598.24     0.003419      5.76       103.09       28.17       0.45

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        1.01        139          590.34      593.43       592.86      593.97     0.009325      5.92        23.46       9.96        0.68
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.89        231          590.34      594.87       593.62      595.39      0.00666      5.74        40.33       14.07       0.59
St John's Church     156       10 Yr         0.8        306          590.34      595.85       594.42      596.34     0.004714      5.68        54.71       18.1        0.51
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.74        392          590.34      596.76       594.89      597.24     0.003545      5.68        76.3        25.51       0.46
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.78        474          590.34      597.34        595.3      597.85     0.003304      5.92        91.63       27.06       0.45
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.82        530          590.34      597.66       595.56      598.2      0.003298      6.14       100.23       27.9        0.46

St John's Church     146        2 Yr        1.36        139          590.34      593.13       592.87      593.84      0.01367      6.77       20.53         9.77       0.82
St John's Church     146        5 Yr        0.98        231          590.34      594.76       593.63      595.31     0.007786      5.97       38.68        13.94       0.63
St John's Church     146       10 Yr        0.83        306          590.34      595.79       594.19      596.29     0.005334      5.7        53.71        16.78       0.53
St John's Church     146       25 Yr        0.75        392          590.34      596.73       594.9        597.2     0.003993      5.59       75.55        25.44       0.47
St John's Church     146       50 Yr        0.77        474          590.34      597.32       595.32      597.81     0.003712      5.75       91.14        27.02       0.46
St John's Church     146       100 Yr       0.8         530          590.34      597.64       595.59      598.15      0.0037       5.93       99.88        27.86       0.46

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.73        139          588.99      592.51       592.04      593.42     0.017373      7.65       18.17         6.18       0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.22        231          588.99      593.71       593.13      594.94     0.018871       8.9       25.97         6.95        0.8
St John's Church     120       10 Yr        2.39        306          588.99      594.59       593.91      595.98     0.017222      9.48       33.13          10        0.78
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.98        392          588.99       595.8       594.93      596.97     0.011308      8.98       50.65        18.56       0.66
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        1.94        474          588.99      596.47       595.88       597.6     0.009927      9.05       64.23        21.49       0.63
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.08        530          588.99      596.74       596.27      597.93     0.010213      9.43       70.12        22.58       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.5        139          588.99      592.04       592.04      593.32     0.027197       9.07      15.33         5.94        1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.13        231          588.99      593.13       593.13      594.83     0.028742      10.44      22.12        6.49         1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr        3.48        306          588.99      593.91       593.91      595.86     0.028549      11.21      27.38        7.42        0.99
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        3.26        392          588.99      594.93       594.93      596.85     0.021935      11.21      36.89        12.53       0.89
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.76        474          588.99      595.88       595.88      597.51     0.015548      10.62      52.16        18.95       0.77
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.74        530          588.99      596.27       596.27      597.86     0.014481      10.7       59.86        20.64       0.75

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.86        139          588.51      591.26       591.26      592.22     0.019263      7.87       17.67         9.2         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.22        231          588.51      592.09       592.09      593.33     0.018688      8.92       25.89        10.49        1
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.44        306          588.51      592.66       592.66      594.07     0.018022      9.54       32.11        11.5         1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.64        392          588.51      593.22       593.22      594.82     0.017122      10.15      38.94        12.78       0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.81        474          588.51      593.71       593.71      595.46     0.016525      10.65      45.38        13.88       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr       2.86        530          588.51      594.06       594.06      595.86     0.016152      10.8       50.47        15.19       0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.97        139          588.32      590.67       590.38      591.16     0.010436      5.65        24.6        14.76       0.77
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.07        231          588.32      591.47       590.98      592.07     0.008772      6.22       37.12        16.56       0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.15        306          588.32      592.01       591.42      592.68      0.00817      6.59        46.4        17.77       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.25        392          588.32      592.53       591.84      593.29     0.007915       7         55.98        18.94       0.72
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.32        474          588.32      592.99       592.22      593.82     0.007682      7.31       64.85        19.96       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.37        530          588.32      593.27       592.47      594.14     0.007609      7.51       70.54        20.59       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.66        139          587.29      589.76       589.76       590.6     0.018011      7.38       18.83        11.23        1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.93        231          587.29      590.51       590.51      591.56     0.016892      8.24       28.03        13.32        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr         2.1        306          587.29       591          591        592.19      0.01639      8.78       34.87        14.64        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.24        392          587.29      591.49       591.49      592.82     0.015796      9.23       42.47        15.98        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.39        474          587.29      591.89       591.89      593.34     0.015454      9.67       49.06        17.71        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.47        530          587.29      592.15       592.15      593.67     0.014906      9.92       53.87        19.63       0.99
                                                Simulation B: Project (developed) site conditions with existing flows (circa 2009)
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan     Q Total    Min Ch El   W.S. Elev      Crit W.S.   E.G. Elev E.G. Slope       Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)     (cfs)         (ft)        (ft)          (ft)         (ft)         (ft/ft)    (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr        0.01         139         593.23      601.22                    601.24       0.000056      1.27       109.44       32.98       0.12
St John's Church     260        5 Yr        0.01         231         593.23       603.4                    603.42       0.000029      1.18       217.51        69         0.09
St John's Church     260       10 Yr        0.01         306         593.23      603.69                    603.72        0.00004      1.45       237.74        69         0.11
St John's Church     260       25 Yr        0.01         392         593.23      604.01                    604.05       0.000052      1.73       259.47        69         0.13
St John's Church     260       50 Yr        0.02         474         593.23      604.27                    604.33       0.000064      1.96       277.77        69         0.14
St John's Church     260       100 Yr       0.02         530         593.23       604.4                    604.46       0.000074      2.14       286.39        69         0.15

St John's Church     220        2 Yr        0.01         139         591.6        601.22      593.42       601.24      0.000028       0.95       147.16       40.64       0.08
St John's Church     220        5 Yr         0           231         591.6         603.4      594.14       603.42      0.000016       0.96       269.06        69         0.07
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.01         306         591.6         603.7      594.67       603.72      0.000023        1.2       289.41        69         0.08
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.01         392         591.6        604.01      595.22       604.04      0.000031       1.44       311.27        69          0.1
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.01         474         591.6        604.28      595.72       604.32      0.000039       1.65       329.68        69         0.11
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.02         530         591.6        604.41      596.04       604.45      0.000046        1.8        338.4        69         0.12

St John's Church     207        2 Yr        0.01         139         591.6        601.22      593.41       601.24      0.000028       0.95       147.15       40.64       0.08
St John's Church     207        5 Yr         0           231         591.6         603.4      594.14       603.42      0.000016       0.96       269.05        69         0.07
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.01         306         591.6         603.7      594.67       603.72      0.000023        1.2       289.39        69         0.08
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.01         392         591.6        604.01      595.22       604.04      0.000031       1.44       311.24        69          0.1
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.01         474         591.6        604.28       595.7       604.32      0.000039       1.65       329.64        69         0.11
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.02         530         591.6        604.41      596.02       604.45      0.000046        1.8       338.35        69         0.12

St John's Church     206                   Culvert

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        3.02         139         591.6        593.42      593.42       594.33      0.036265       7.63       18.23         10          1
St John's Church     195        5 Yr        2.31         231         591.6        594.85      594.14       595.63      0.018756       7.11       32.51         10         0.69
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.32         306         591.6        595.79      594.67       596.62       0.01634       7.31       41.87         10         0.63
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.58         392         591.6        596.61      595.22       597.56      0.016512       7.82       50.12         10         0.62
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.13         474         591.6        597.07      595.72       598.23      0.019173       8.67       54.67         10         0.65
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       3.64         530         591.6        597.28      596.04       598.63      0.022608       9.33       56.8         10.78       0.72

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.44         139         589.83       593.86      592.15       594.01      0.003063       3.18        43.69       15.74       0.34
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.48         231         589.83       595.21      592.81        595.4      0.002603       3.47        66.55       17.89       0.32
St John's Church     185       10 Yr         0.5         306         589.83       596.17      593.27       596.38      0.002369       3.62        84.43       19.37       0.31
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.54         392         589.83       597.07      593.75        597.3      0.002297       3.83       102.36       20.74        0.3
St John's Church     185       50 Yr        0.62         474         589.83       597.64      594.15       597.91      0.002473       4.14       114.59       21.63       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.68         530         589.83       597.96      594.38       598.25       0.00264       4.36       121.47       22.11       0.33

St John's Church     166        2 Yr        1.29         139         590.34       593.17      592.87       593.86       0.01282       6.62        20.99        9.8         0.8
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        1.02         231         590.34       594.71      593.63       595.28      0.008211       6.08        37.98       13.89       0.65
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.84         306         590.34       595.77      594.19       596.28      0.005419       5.73        53.41       16.36       0.54
St John's Church     166       25 Yr        0.74         392         590.34       596.75       594.9       597.22      0.003933       5.56        76.03       25.49       0.47
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.76         474         590.34       597.35      595.32       597.83      0.003637       5.71        91.9        27.09       0.46
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.79         530         590.34       597.67      595.59       598.18      0.003626       5.89       100.69       27.94       0.46

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        0.68         139         590.34       593.31      592.74       593.67      0.006627       4.83        28.78       16.02       0.63
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.42         231         590.34       594.88      593.38       595.15      0.002154       4.19        58.45       21.63        0.4
St John's Church     156       10 Yr        0.37         306         590.34       595.93      593.78       596.18      0.001449       4.11        82.99       25.35       0.34
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.36         392         590.34       596.88       594.2       597.13      0.001166        4.2       108.63       28.57       0.32
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.39         474         590.34       597.47      594.56       597.76      0.001154       4.48       126.15       30.55       0.32
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.43         530         590.34       597.79      594.82        598.1      0.001187       4.71       136.02       31.61       0.33

St John's Church     131                   Bridge

St John's Church     130        2 Yr         0.2         139         589.49       593.41      591.42       593.53      0.001326       2.81        49.43       17.11       0.29
St John's Church     130        5 Yr         0.2         231         589.49       594.94      592.08       595.08      0.000913       2.99        78.23       20.56       0.26
St John's Church     130       10 Yr        0.21         306         589.49       595.97      592.54       596.12      0.000761       3.16       100.65       22.91       0.24
St John's Church     130       25 Yr        0.23         392         589.49       596.91      592.99       597.08      0.000705       3.39       123.31       25.22       0.24
St John's Church     130       50 Yr        0.27         474         589.49        597.5      593.39       597.71      0.000748       3.71       138.63       26.69       0.25
St John's Church     130       100 Yr        0.3         530         589.49       597.82      593.63       598.05      0.000795       3.95        147.2       27.47       0.26

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.73         139         588.99       592.51      592.04       593.42      0.017373       7.65       18.17        6.18        0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.22         231         588.99       593.71      593.13       594.94      0.018871        8.9       25.97        6.95         0.8
St John's Church     120       10 Yr        2.39         306         588.99       594.59      593.91       595.98      0.017222       9.48       33.13         10         0.78
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.98         392         588.99        595.8      594.93       596.97      0.011308       8.98       50.65        18.56       0.66
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        1.94         474         588.99       596.47      595.88        597.6      0.009927       9.05       64.23        21.49       0.63
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.08         530         588.99       596.74      596.27       597.93      0.010213       9.43       70.12        22.58       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.5         139         588.99       592.04      592.04       593.32      0.027197       9.07       15.33        5.94         1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.13         231         588.99       593.13      593.13       594.83      0.028742       10.44      22.12        6.49         1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr        3.48         306         588.99       593.91      593.91       595.86      0.028549       11.21      27.38        7.42        0.99
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        3.26         392         588.99       594.93      594.93       596.85      0.021935       11.21      36.89        12.53       0.89
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.76         474         588.99       595.88      595.88       597.51      0.015548       10.62      52.16        18.95       0.77
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.74         530         588.99       596.27      596.27       597.86      0.014481       10.7       59.86        20.64       0.75

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.86         139         588.51       591.26      591.26       592.22      0.019263       7.87       17.67         9.2         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.22         231         588.51       592.09      592.09       593.33      0.018688       8.92       25.89        10.49        1
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.44         306         588.51       592.66      592.66       594.07      0.018022       9.54       32.11        11.5         1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.64         392         588.51       593.22      593.22       594.82      0.017122       10.15      38.94        12.78       0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.81         474         588.51       593.71      593.71       595.46      0.016525       10.65      45.38        13.88       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr       2.86         530         588.51       594.06      594.06       595.86      0.016152       10.8       50.47        15.19       0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.97         139         588.32       590.67      590.38       591.16      0.010436       5.65       24.6         14.76       0.77
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.07         231         588.32       591.47      590.98       592.07      0.008772       6.22       37.12        16.56       0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.15         306         588.32       592.01      591.42       592.68       0.00817       6.59       46.4         17.77       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.25         392         588.32       592.53      591.84       593.29      0.007915        7         55.98        18.94       0.72
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.32         474         588.32       592.99      592.22       593.82      0.007682       7.31       64.85        19.96       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.37         530         588.32       593.27      592.47       594.14      0.007609       7.51       70.54        20.59       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.66         139         587.29       589.76      589.76        590.6      0.018011       7.38       18.83        11.23        1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.93         231         587.29       590.51      590.51       591.56      0.016892       8.24       28.03        13.32        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr         2.1         306         587.29        591         591         592.19       0.01639       8.78       34.87        14.64        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.24         392         587.29       591.49      591.49       592.82      0.015796       9.23       42.47        15.98        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.39         474         587.29       591.89      591.89       593.34      0.015454       9.67       49.06        17.71        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.47         530         587.29       592.15      592.15       593.67      0.014906       9.92       53.87        19.63       0.99
                               Simulation C: Existing site and flow conditions with upstream and off-site 48-inch reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) removed
    Reach          River Sta      Profile    Shear Chan      Q Total    Min Ch El    W.S. Elev   Crit W.S.     E.G. Elev E.G. Slope     Vel Chnl    Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                               (lb/sq ft)     (cfs)         (ft)        (ft)        (ft)          (ft)        (ft/ft)     (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260            2 Yr          0.47        139        593.23       595.17      595.17        596.15     0.005513       7.95        17.48         9         1.01
St John's Church     260            5 Yr          0.61        231        593.23       595.96      595.96        597.33     0.005732       9.42        24.53         9         1.01
St John's Church     260           10 Yr           0.7        306        593.23       596.52      596.52        598.18      0.00594      10.34        29.61         9           1
St John's Church     260           25 Yr          0.81        392        593.23       597.09      597.09        599.07     0.006276      11.28        34.76         9         1.01
St John's Church     260           50 Yr          0.74        474        593.23       597.97      597.97        599.79     0.005537      10.81        43.84       12.1          1
St John's Church     260          100 Yr          0.72        530        593.23        598.4       598.4        600.19     0.005257      10.72        49.42       13.9          1

St John's Church     220             2 Yr        0.24        139         591.6       593.98                    594.51     0.002366       5.84        23.78         10         0.67
St John's Church     220             5 Yr        0.26        231         591.6        595.2                    595.84     0.002008       6.41        36.03         10          0.6
St John's Church     220            10 Yr        0.29        306         591.6       596.06                    596.79      0.00197       6.87        44.55         10         0.57
St John's Church     220            25 Yr        0.34        392         591.6       596.83                     597.7     0.002104        7.5         52.3         10         0.58
St John's Church     220            50 Yr        0.41        474         591.6       597.33                    598.39     0.002623       8.26        57.37        11.61       0.65
St John's Church     220           100 Yr        0.44        530         591.6       597.72                    598.82     0.003103       8.41        62.99        16.35       0.76

St John's Church     207             2 Yr        0.25        139         591.6       593.91                    594.47     0.002582       6.02        23.08         10          0.7
St John's Church     207             5 Yr        0.27        231         591.6       595.15                    595.81     0.002086        6.5        35.54         10         0.61
St John's Church     207            10 Yr         0.3        306         591.6       596.01                    596.76     0.002027       6.94        44.09         10         0.58
St John's Church     207            25 Yr        0.34        392         591.6       596.78                    597.67     0.002156       7.56        51.82         10         0.59
St John's Church     207            50 Yr        0.42        474         591.6       597.26                    598.35     0.002566       8.37        56.64        10.53       0.64
St John's Church     207           100 Yr        0.47        530         591.6       597.61                    598.77      0.00334       8.65        61.28        16.03       0.78

St John's Church     195             2 Yr        2.14        139         591.6       593.73       593.41       594.39      0.02296       6.53        21.27         10         0.79
St John's Church     195             5 Yr          2         231         591.6       595.07       594.13       595.76     0.015682       6.67        34.65         10         0.63
St John's Church     195            10 Yr        2.16        306         591.6       595.93       594.68        596.7     0.014933       7.07        43.27         10          0.6
St John's Church     195            25 Yr        2.49        392         591.6        596.7       595.23       597.61     0.015792       7.69        50.96         10          0.6
St John's Church     195            50 Yr        3.03        474         591.6       597.15       595.71       598.28     0.018446       8.54        55.48         10         0.64
St John's Church     195           100 Yr        3.56        530         591.6       597.37       596.04       598.67     0.023233       9.15        57.91        12.34       0.74

St John's Church     185             2 Yr        0.38        139         589.83      594.04       592.15       594.17     0.002567       2.99         46.55       16.08       0.31
St John's Church     185             5 Yr        0.44        231         589.83      595.38       592.81       595.55     0.002302       3.32         69.56       18.15        0.3
St John's Church     185            10 Yr        0.47        306         589.83      596.29       593.27       596.48     0.002205       3.53         86.67       19.54        0.3
St John's Church     185            25 Yr        0.52        392         589.83      597.14       593.75       597.36     0.002211       3.78         103.8       20.85        0.3
St John's Church     185            50 Yr         0.6        474         589.83      597.71       594.15       597.97     0.002395       4.09        115.95       21.72       0.31
St John's Church     185           100 Yr        0.66        530         589.83      598.03       594.38       598.31     0.002556       4.31        122.93       22.21       0.32

St John's Church     166             2 Yr        0.88        139         590.34      593.58       592.87       594.06     0.007746       5.55         25.05       10.07       0.62
St John's Church     166             5 Yr        0.82        231         590.34      594.98       593.63       595.45     0.006216       5.52         41.82       14.18       0.57
St John's Church     166            10 Yr        0.76        306         590.34      595.93       594.19        596.4     0.004735       5.48         56.28       20.01        0.5
St John's Church     166            25 Yr         0.7        392         590.34      596.84        594.9       597.28     0.003655       5.41         78.42       25.73       0.45
St John's Church     166            50 Yr        0.72        474         590.34      597.44       595.32       597.89     0.003428       5.59         94.14       27.31       0.45
St John's Church     166           100 Yr        0.75        530         590.34      597.76       595.59       598.24     0.003419       5.76        103.09       28.17       0.45

St John's Church     156             2 Yr        1.01        139         590.34      593.43       592.86       593.97     0.009325       5.92         23.46        9.96       0.68
St John's Church     156             5 Yr        0.89        231         590.34      594.87       593.62       595.39      0.00666       5.74         40.33       14.07       0.59
St John's Church     156            10 Yr         0.8        306         590.34      595.85       594.42       596.34     0.004714       5.68         54.71        18.1       0.51
St John's Church     156            25 Yr        0.74        392         590.34      596.76       594.89       597.24     0.003545       5.68          76.3       25.51       0.46
St John's Church     156            50 Yr        0.78        474         590.34      597.34        595.3       597.85     0.003304       5.92         91.63       27.06       0.45
St John's Church     156           100 Yr        0.82        530         590.34      597.66       595.56        598.2     0.003298       6.14        100.23        27.9       0.46

St John's Church     146             2 Yr        1.36        139         590.34      593.13       592.87       593.84      0.01367       6.77        20.53         9.77       0.82
St John's Church     146             5 Yr        0.98        231         590.34      594.76       593.63       595.31     0.007786       5.97        38.68        13.94       0.63
St John's Church     146            10 Yr        0.83        306         590.34      595.79       594.19       596.29     0.005334        5.7        53.71        16.78       0.53
St John's Church     146            25 Yr        0.75        392         590.34      596.73        594.9        597.2     0.003993       5.59        75.55        25.44       0.47
St John's Church     146            50 Yr        0.77        474         590.34      597.32       595.32       597.81     0.003712       5.75        91.14        27.02       0.46
St John's Church     146           100 Yr         0.8        530         590.34      597.64       595.59       598.15       0.0037       5.93        99.88        27.86       0.46

St John's Church     120             2 Yr        1.73        139         588.99      592.51       592.04       593.42     0.017373       7.65        18.17         6.18       0.79
St John's Church     120             5 Yr        2.22        231         588.99      593.71       593.13       594.94     0.018871        8.9        25.97         6.95        0.8
St John's Church     120            10 Yr        2.39        306         588.99      594.59       593.91       595.98     0.017222       9.48        33.13          10        0.78
St John's Church     120            25 Yr        1.98        392         588.99       595.8       594.93       596.97     0.011308       8.98        50.65        18.56       0.66
St John's Church     120            50 Yr        1.94        474         588.99      596.47       595.88        597.6     0.009927       9.05        64.23        21.49       0.63
St John's Church     120           100 Yr        2.08        530         588.99      596.74       596.27       597.93     0.010213       9.43        70.12        22.58       0.64

St John's Church     117             2 Yr         2.5        139         588.99      592.04       592.04       593.32     0.027197       9.07        15.33         5.94         1
St John's Church     117             5 Yr        3.13        231         588.99      593.13       593.13       594.83     0.028742      10.44        22.12         6.49         1
St John's Church     117            10 Yr        3.48        306         588.99      593.91       593.91       595.86     0.028549      11.21        27.38         7.42       0.99
St John's Church     117            25 Yr        3.26        392         588.99      594.93       594.93       596.85     0.021935      11.21        36.89        12.53       0.89
St John's Church     117            50 Yr        2.76        474         588.99      595.88       595.88       597.51     0.015548      10.62        52.16        18.95       0.77
St John's Church     117           100 Yr        2.74        530         588.99      596.27       596.27       597.86     0.014481       10.7        59.86        20.64       0.75

St John's Church      83             2 Yr        1.86        139         588.51      591.26       591.26       592.22     0.019263       7.87        17.67          9.2         1
St John's Church      83             5 Yr        2.22        231         588.51      592.09       592.09       593.33     0.018688       8.92        25.89        10.49         1
St John's Church      83            10 Yr        2.44        306         588.51      592.66       592.66       594.07     0.018022       9.54        32.11         11.5         1
St John's Church      83            25 Yr        2.64        392         588.51      593.22       593.22       594.82     0.017122      10.15        38.94        12.78       0.99
St John's Church      83            50 Yr        2.81        474         588.51      593.71       593.71       595.46     0.016525      10.65        45.38        13.88       0.99
St John's Church      83           100 Yr        2.86        530         588.51      594.06       594.06       595.86     0.016152       10.8        50.47        15.19       0.99

St John's Church      60             2 Yr        0.97        139         588.32      590.67       590.38       591.16     0.010436       5.65         24.6        14.76       0.77
St John's Church      60             5 Yr        1.07        231         588.32      591.47       590.98       592.07     0.008772       6.22        37.12        16.56       0.73
St John's Church      60            10 Yr        1.15        306         588.32      592.01       591.42       592.68      0.00817       6.59         46.4        17.77       0.72
St John's Church      60            25 Yr        1.25        392         588.32      592.53       591.84       593.29     0.007915         7         55.98        18.94       0.72
St John's Church      60            50 Yr        1.32        474         588.32      592.99       592.22       593.82     0.007682       7.31        64.85        19.96       0.71
St John's Church      60           100 Yr        1.37        530         588.32      593.27       592.47       594.14     0.007609       7.51        70.54        20.59       0.72

St John's Church      21             2 Yr        1.66        139         587.29      589.76       589.76        590.6     0.018011       7.38        18.83        11.23         1
St John's Church      21             5 Yr        1.93        231         587.29      590.51       590.51       591.56     0.016892       8.24        28.03        13.32         1
St John's Church      21            10 Yr         2.1        306         587.29       591          591         592.19      0.01639       8.78        34.87        14.64         1
St John's Church      21            25 Yr        2.24        392         587.29      591.49       591.49       592.82     0.015796       9.23        42.47        15.98         1
St John's Church      21            50 Yr        2.39        474         587.29      591.89       591.89       593.34     0.015454       9.67        49.06        17.71         1
St John's Church      21           100 Yr        2.47        530         587.29      592.15       592.15       593.67     0.014906       9.92        53.87        19.63       0.99
                                              Simulation D: Project site conditions under existing flows and 48-inch RCP removed
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan     Q Total     Min Ch El    W.S. Elev   Crit W.S.    E.G. Elev E.G. Slope   Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)     (cfs)         (ft)         (ft)         (ft)        (ft)        (ft/ft)  (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr         0.47        139         593.23       595.17       595.17      596.15     0.005511     7.95       17.48         9         1.01
St John's Church     260        5 Yr         0.61        231         593.23       595.96       595.96      597.33     0.005732     9.42       24.53         9         1.01
St John's Church     260       10 Yr          0.7        306         593.23       596.52       596.52      598.18      0.00594    10.34       29.61         9          1
St John's Church     260       25 Yr         0.81        392         593.23       597.09       597.09      599.07     0.006276    11.28       34.76         9         1.01
St John's Church     260       50 Yr         0.74        474         593.23       597.97       597.97      599.79     0.005537    10.81       43.84       12.1         1
St John's Church     260       100 Yr        0.72        530         593.23        598.4       598.4       600.19     0.005257    10.72       49.42       13.9         1

St John's Church     220        2 Yr        0.25         139        591.6       593.92      593.42       594.48     0.002528       5.98      23.25         10         0.69
St John's Church     220        5 Yr        0.29         231        591.6       595.04      594.14       595.74     0.002288       6.72      34.38         10         0.64
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.31         306        591.6       595.93      594.67       596.71     0.002126       7.06      43.32         10         0.6
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.35         392        591.6       596.76      595.22       597.66     0.002179       7.6       51.61         10         0.59
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.42         474        591.6       597.25      595.72       598.34     0.002557       8.38      56.54        10.38       0.63
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.47         530        591.6       597.6       596.04       598.77     0.003362       8.67      61.13         16         0.78

St John's Church     207        2 Yr        0.27         139        591.6       593.84                   594.44     0.002815        6.2      22.41         10         0.73
St John's Church     207        5 Yr         0.3         231        591.6       594.98                    595.7     0.002406       6.84      33.77         10         0.66
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.32         306        591.6       595.88                   596.67     0.002197       7.15      42.79         10         0.61
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.35         392        591.6       596.71                   597.62      0.00224       7.67      51.08         10          0.6
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.43         474        591.6       597.19                   598.31     0.002582       8.48      55.89         10         0.63
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.49         530        591.6       597.49                   598.72     0.003368       8.91      59.46        14.23       0.77

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        3.02         139        591.6       593.42      593.42       594.33     0.036265       7.63      18.23         10          1
St John's Church     195        5 Yr        2.31         231        591.6       594.85      594.14       595.63     0.018756       7.11      32.51         10         0.69
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.32         306        591.6       595.79      594.67       596.62      0.01634       7.31      41.87         10         0.63
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.58         392        591.6       596.61      595.22       597.56     0.016512       7.82      50.12         10         0.62
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.13         474        591.6       597.07      595.72       598.23     0.019173       8.67      54.67         10         0.65
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       3.64         530        591.6       597.28      596.04       598.63     0.022608       9.33      56.8         10.78       0.72

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.44         139        589.83      593.86      592.15       594.01     0.003063       3.18       43.69       15.74       0.34
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.48         231        589.83      595.21      592.81        595.4     0.002603       3.47       66.55       17.89       0.32
St John's Church     185       10 Yr         0.5         306        589.83      596.17      593.27       596.38     0.002369       3.62       84.43       19.37       0.31
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.54         392        589.83      597.07      593.75        597.3     0.002297       3.83      102.36       20.74       0.3
St John's Church     185       50 Yr        0.62         474        589.83      597.64      594.15       597.91     0.002473       4.14      114.59       21.63       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.68         530        589.83      597.96      594.38       598.25     0.00264        4.36      121.47       22.11       0.33

St John's Church     166        2 Yr        1.29         139        590.34      593.17      592.87       593.86      0.01282       6.62       20.99        9.8         0.8
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        1.02         231        590.34      594.71      593.63       595.28     0.008211       6.08       37.98       13.89       0.65
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.84         306        590.34      595.77      594.19       596.28     0.005419       5.73       53.41       16.36       0.54
St John's Church     166       25 Yr        0.74         392        590.34      596.75       594.9       597.22     0.003933       5.56       76.03       25.49       0.47
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.76         474        590.34      597.35      595.32       597.83     0.003637       5.71       91.9        27.09       0.46
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.79         530        590.34      597.67      595.59       598.18     0.003626       5.89      100.69       27.94       0.46

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        0.68         139        590.34      593.31      592.74       593.67     0.006627       4.83       28.78       16.02       0.63
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.42         231        590.34      594.88      593.38       595.15     0.002154       4.19       58.45       21.63        0.4
St John's Church     156       10 Yr        0.37         306        590.34      595.93      593.78       596.18     0.001449       4.11      82.99        25.35       0.34
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.36         392        590.34      596.88       594.2       597.13     0.001166        4.2      108.63       28.57       0.32
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.39         474        590.34      597.47      594.56       597.76     0.001154       4.48      126.15       30.55       0.32
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.43         530        590.34      597.79      594.82       598.1      0.001187       4.71      136.02       31.61       0.33

St John's Church     131                   Bridge

St John's Church     130        2 Yr        0.2          139        589.49      593.41      591.42       593.53     0.001326       2.81       49.43       17.11       0.29
St John's Church     130        5 Yr        0.2          231        589.49      594.94      592.08       595.08     0.000913       2.99       78.23       20.56       0.26
St John's Church     130       10 Yr        0.21         306        589.49      595.97      592.54       596.12     0.000761       3.16      100.65       22.91       0.24
St John's Church     130       25 Yr        0.23         392        589.49      596.91      592.99       597.08     0.000705       3.39      123.31       25.22       0.24
St John's Church     130       50 Yr        0.27         474        589.49      597.5       593.39       597.71     0.000748       3.71      138.63       26.69       0.25
St John's Church     130       100 Yr       0.3          530        589.49      597.82      593.63       598.05     0.000795       3.95      147.2        27.47       0.26

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.73         139        588.99      592.51      592.04       593.42     0.017373       7.65      18.17         6.18       0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.22         231        588.99      593.71      593.13       594.94     0.018871        8.9      25.97         6.95        0.8
St John's Church     120       10 Yr        2.39         306        588.99      594.59      593.91       595.98     0.017222       9.48      33.13          10        0.78
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.98         392        588.99       595.8      594.93       596.97     0.011308       8.98      50.65        18.56       0.66
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        1.94         474        588.99      596.47      595.88        597.6     0.009927       9.05      64.23        21.49       0.63
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.08         530        588.99      596.74      596.27       597.93     0.010213       9.43      70.12        22.58       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.5         139        588.99      592.04      592.04       593.32     0.027197       9.07      15.33         5.94        1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.13         231        588.99      593.13      593.13       594.83     0.028742      10.44      22.12        6.49         1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr        3.48         306        588.99      593.91      593.91       595.86     0.028549      11.21      27.38        7.42        0.99
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        3.26         392        588.99      594.93      594.93       596.85     0.021935      11.21      36.89        12.53       0.89
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.76         474        588.99      595.88      595.88       597.51     0.015548      10.62      52.16        18.95       0.77
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.74         530        588.99      596.27      596.27       597.86     0.014481      10.7       59.86        20.64       0.75

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.86         139        588.51      591.26      591.26       592.22     0.019263      7.87       17.67         9.2         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.22         231        588.51      592.09      592.09       593.33     0.018688      8.92       25.89        10.49        1
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.44         306        588.51      592.66      592.66       594.07     0.018022      9.54       32.11        11.5         1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.64         392        588.51      593.22      593.22       594.82     0.017122      10.15      38.94        12.78       0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.81         474        588.51      593.71      593.71       595.46     0.016525      10.65      45.38        13.88       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr       2.86         530        588.51      594.06      594.06       595.86     0.016152      10.8       50.47        15.19       0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.97         139        588.32      590.67      590.38       591.16     0.010436       5.65       24.6        14.76       0.77
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.07         231        588.32      591.47      590.98       592.07     0.008772       6.22      37.12        16.56       0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.15         306        588.32      592.01      591.42       592.68      0.00817       6.59       46.4        17.77       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.25         392        588.32      592.53      591.84       593.29     0.007915        7        55.98        18.94       0.72
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.32         474        588.32      592.99      592.22       593.82     0.007682       7.31      64.85        19.96       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.37         530        588.32      593.27      592.47       594.14     0.007609       7.51      70.54        20.59       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.66         139        587.29      589.76      589.76        590.6     0.018011       7.38      18.83        11.23        1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.93         231        587.29      590.51      590.51       591.56     0.016892       8.24      28.03        13.32        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr         2.1         306        587.29       591         591         592.19      0.01639       8.78      34.87        14.64        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.24         392        587.29      591.49      591.49       592.82     0.015796       9.23      42.47        15.98        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.39         474        587.29      591.89      591.89       593.34     0.015454       9.67      49.06        17.71        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.47         530        587.29      592.15      592.15       593.67     0.014906       9.92      53.87        19.63       0.99
                                                Simulation E: Future full watershed build-out flows under existing site conditions
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan     Q Total     Min Ch El    W.S. Elev    Crit W.S.   E.G. Elev E.G. Slope       Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)     (cfs)         (ft)         (ft)         (ft)        (ft)         (ft/ft)     (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr          0           161        593.23       602.89                    602.9       0.000021      0.94       182.22        69         0.08
St John's Church     260        5 Yr         0.01         264        593.23       603.52                   603.55       0.000034      1.31       226.09        69         0.1
St John's Church     260       10 Yr         0.01         337        593.23        603.8                   603.83       0.000045      1.56         245         69         0.12
St John's Church     260       25 Yr         0.02         431        593.23       603.93                   603.99       0.000067      1.93       254.35        69         0.14
St John's Church     260       50 Yr         0.02         511        593.23       604.19                   604.26       0.000078      2.15       272.39        69         0.16
St John's Church     260       100 Yr        0.03         569        593.23       604.39                   604.46       0.000085       2.3       285.64        69         0.16

St John's Church     220        2 Yr         0           161         591.6       602.89                     602.9      0.000011       0.75       233.68        69         0.06
St John's Church     220        5 Yr        0.01         264         591.6       603.53                    603.55      0.000019       1.07        277.7        69         0.07
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.01         337         591.6       603.8                     603.83      0.000026       1.29       296.72        69         0.09
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.01         431         591.6       603.94                    603.98      0.00004         1.6       306.28        69         0.11
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.02         511         591.6       604.21                    604.25      0.000048       1.81       324.44        69         0.12
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.02         569         591.6       604.4                     604.45      0.000053       1.94       337.77        69         0.13

St John's Church     207        2 Yr         0           161         591.6       602.89        593.6        602.9      0.000011       0.75       233.67        69         0.06
St John's Church     207        5 Yr        0.01         264         591.6       603.53       594.38       603.54      0.000019       1.07       277.68        69         0.07
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.01         337         591.6       603.8        594.87       603.83      0.000026       1.29       296.69        69         0.09
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.01         431         591.6       603.94       595.45       603.98      0.00004         1.6       306.25        69         0.11
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.02         511         591.6       604.21       595.91       604.25      0.000048       1.81       324.4         69         0.12
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.02         569         591.6       604.4        596.23       604.45      0.000053       1.94       337.72        69         0.13

St John's Church     206                   Culvert

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        2.08         161         591.6       594.06        593.6       594.72      0.020268       6.56       24.56         10         0.74
St John's Church     195        5 Yr        2.06         264         591.6       595.46       594.39       596.19      0.015163       6.83       38.63         10         0.61
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.25         337         591.6       596.24       594.89       597.06      0.014989       7.26       46.41         10         0.59
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.72         431         591.6       596.94       595.46       597.95      0.016906       8.08       53.35         10         0.62
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.37         511         591.6       597.29       595.93       598.54      0.021129       8.97       56.97        11.03        0.7
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       3.88         569         591.6       597.55       596.25       598.93      0.027232       9.44       60.28        15.13       0.83

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.4          161         589.83      594.36       592.33       594.51      0.002535        3.1        51.89       16.58       0.31
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.45         264         589.83      595.79       593.03       595.98      0.002255       3.42        77.21       18.78        0.3
St John's Church     185       10 Yr        0.49         337         589.83      596.63       593.46       596.83      0.002182       3.61       93.36        20.06       0.29
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.56         431         589.83      597.43       593.95       597.67      0.002287       3.92       109.95       21.29       0.3
St John's Church     185       50 Yr        0.64         511         589.83      597.92       594.31       598.2       0.002505       4.24       120.55       22.04       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.7          569         589.83      598.24       594.56       598.54      0.002661       4.46       127.65       22.53       0.33

St John's Church     166        2 Yr         0.9         161         590.34      593.89       593.06        594.4      0.007446       5.71         28.2       10.27       0.61
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        0.79         264         590.34      595.42       593.88       595.88      0.005435       5.49        48.12       14.65       0.53
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.73         337         590.34      596.29        594.6       596.75      0.004227       5.44        64.64       24.27       0.48
St John's Church     166       25 Yr         0.7         431         590.34      597.15       595.11       597.59      0.003498       5.48        86.4        26.55       0.45
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.75         511         590.34      597.65       595.49       598.12      0.003429       5.71         100        27.87       0.45
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.78         569         590.34      597.97       595.77       598.47      0.003408       5.87       109.25       28.74       0.45

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        1.02         161         590.34      593.75       593.06       594.31      0.008641       6.02        26.74       10.18       0.65
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.83         264         590.34      595.33       593.89       595.83      0.005553       5.67         46.8       14.55       0.55
St John's Church     156       10 Yr        0.77         337         590.34      596.21       594.59        596.7      0.004165       5.67        62.63       24.05       0.49
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.75         431         590.34      597.06       595.08       597.55      0.003377       5.77        84.12       26.32       0.45
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.81         511         590.34      597.55       595.47       598.08      0.003307       6.07        97.26       27.61       0.45
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.85         569         590.34      597.87       595.74       598.43      0.003288       6.29       106.14       28.45       0.46

St John's Church     146        2 Yr        1.21         161         590.34      593.55       593.06       594.21      0.010858       6.53        24.66       10.04       0.73
St John's Church     146        5 Yr        0.89         264         590.34      595.24       593.88       595.76       0.00635       5.79        45.56       14.46       0.58
St John's Church     146       10 Yr        0.79         337         590.34      596.16        594.6       596.66      0.004706       5.65        61.58       23.93       0.51
St John's Church     146       25 Yr        0.75         431         590.34      597.04       595.11       597.51      0.003799       5.64        83.51       26.25       0.46
St John's Church     146       50 Yr        0.79         511         590.34      597.53       595.49       598.04      0.003713       5.87        96.86       27.57       0.46
St John's Church     146       100 Yr       0.82         569         590.34      597.86       595.77       598.38      0.003685       6.04       105.89       28.43       0.47

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.86         161         588.99      592.83       592.31       593.82      0.017784       7.99       20.16        6.34        0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.31         264         588.99      594.12       593.48       595.42      0.018285       9.18       28.97        7.92        0.79
St John's Church     120       10 Yr         2.3         337         588.99      595.01       594.25       596.37      0.015248       9.45       37.93        13.15       0.75
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.91         431         588.99      596.18       595.48       597.29      0.010241       8.91       58.04        20.28       0.63
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        2.05         511         588.99      596.64       596.15       597.82      0.010252       9.35       67.74        22.15       0.64
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.13         569         588.99      596.95       596.47       598.16      0.01014        9.59       74.92        23.44       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.7         161         588.99      592.31       592.31       593.71      0.027913        9.49      16.96         6.08        1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.32         264         588.99      593.48       593.48        595.3      0.029212       10.83      24.38         6.66        1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr         3.5         337         588.99      594.25       594.25       596.24      0.027162       11.35      30.02         8.23       0.97
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        2.89         431         588.99      595.48       595.48       597.19      0.017496       10.75      44.94        16.75       0.81
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.73         511         588.99      596.15       596.15       597.75      0.014714       10.65      57.45        20.16       0.76
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.81         569         588.99      596.47       596.47       598.09      0.014397       10.89      64.04        21.45       0.76

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.95         161         588.51      591.48       591.48       592.51      0.018975       8.15       19.76        9.54         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.36         264         588.51      592.33       592.33       593.67      0.018892       9.28       28.46        10.86       1.01
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.54         337         588.51      592.86       592.86       594.35      0.01788        9.82       34.42        11.95        1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.74         431         588.51      593.45       593.45       595.14      0.016903       10.42      41.93        13.3        0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.88         511         588.51      593.91       593.91       595.73      0.016315       10.85      48.26        14.35       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr       2.8          569         588.51      594.35       594.35       596.12      0.015738       10.71      55.06        16.8        0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.99         161         588.32      590.88       590.54        591.4      0.009869       5.81       27.73        15.23       0.76
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.11         264         588.32      591.71       591.19       592.35      0.008504       6.41       41.22        17.1        0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.19         337         588.32      592.21       591.58       592.91      0.008058       6.75       49.94        18.21       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.28         431         588.32      592.76       592.03       593.55      0.007749       7.14       60.37        19.45       0.71
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.35         511         588.32      593.18       592.39       594.04      0.007615       7.44       68.68        20.38       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.41         569         588.32      593.46       592.63       594.36      0.00762        7.64       74.52        21.26       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.73         161         587.29      589.96       589.96       590.86      0.017614       7.61       21.15         11.8        1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.99         264         587.29      590.74       590.74       591.85      0.016505       8.46       31.19        13.95        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr        2.14         337         587.29      591.19       591.19       592.43      0.016055       8.93       37.74        15.16        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.33         431         587.29      591.68       591.68       593.07      0.015828       9.47       45.53        16.49        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.45         511         587.29      592.05       592.05       593.56      0.015175       9.86       52.09        18.94        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.51         569         587.29      592.32       592.32       593.9       0.014552       10.08      57.39        20.92       0.99
                                                           Simulation F: Full build-out flows with project conditions
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan    Q Total    Min Ch El     W.S. Elev    Crit W.S.    E.G. Elev     E.G. Slope   Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)    (cfs)         (ft)          (ft)        (ft)          (ft)         (ft/ft)    (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr          0         161         593.23        602.89                     602.9      0.000021      0.94       182.22        69         0.08
St John's Church     260        5 Yr        0.01        264         593.23        603.52                    603.55      0.000034      1.31       225.94        69          0.1
St John's Church     260       10 Yr        0.01        337         593.23        603.84                    603.88      0.000044      1.54       248.11        69         0.12
St John's Church     260       25 Yr        0.02        431         593.23        604.13                    604.18      0.000058      1.84       268.05        69         0.13
St John's Church     260       50 Yr        0.02        511         593.23         604.4                    604.46      0.000068      2.06       286.59        69         0.15
St John's Church     260       100 Yr       0.02        569         593.23        604.47                    604.55      0.000081      2.26       291.69        69         0.16

St John's Church     220        2 Yr         0          161         591.6        602.89       593.61       602.9        0.000011      0.75       233.68        69         0.06
St John's Church     220        5 Yr        0.01        264         591.6        603.53       594.38      603.54        0.000019      1.07       277.54        69         0.08
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.01        337         591.6        603.85       594.88      603.87        0.000026      1.28       299.81        69         0.09
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.01        431         591.6        604.14       595.47      604.17        0.000035      1.54        319.9        69          0.1
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.01        511         591.6        604.41       595.93      604.45        0.000042      1.74       338.55        69         0.11
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.02        569         591.6        604.49       596.23      604.54         0.00005      1.91       343.77        69         0.12

St John's Church     207        2 Yr         0          161         591.6        602.89        593.6       602.9        0.000011      0.75       233.67        69         0.06
St John's Church     207        5 Yr        0.01        264         591.6        603.53       594.38      603.54        0.000019      1.07       277.53        69         0.08
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.01        337         591.6        603.85       594.87      603.87        0.000026      1.28       299.79        69         0.09
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.01        431         591.6        604.14       595.45      604.17        0.000035      1.54       319.87        69          0.1
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.01        511         591.6        604.41       595.91      604.45        0.000042      1.74       338.51        69         0.11
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.02        569         591.6        604.49       596.23      604.54         0.00005      1.91       343.72        69         0.12

St John's Church     206                   Culvert

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        2.67        161         591.6         593.8       593.61      594.63        0.028085      7.33       21.95         10         0.87
St John's Church     195        5 Yr        2.29        264         591.6        595.28       594.38      596.08        0.017329      7.17       36.8          10         0.66
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.38        337         591.6        596.13       594.88      596.99        0.016012      7.44       45.29         10         0.62
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.81        431         591.6        596.86       595.47       597.9        0.017587       8.2       52.56         10         0.63
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.44        511         591.6        597.21       595.93       598.5        0.020819      9.11       56.1          10         0.68
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       4.04        569         591.6        597.43       596.23      598.89        0.027035      9.71       58.61        13.22       0.81

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.46        161         589.83       594.19       592.33      594.36        0.002962      3.28        49.09       16.32       0.33
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.49        264         589.83       595.65       593.03      595.85        0.002485      3.54        74.52       18.56       0.31
St John's Church     185       10 Yr        0.51        337         589.83       596.53       593.46      596.74        0.002304      3.68        91.52       19.92        0.3
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.57        431         589.83       597.36       593.95      597.61        0.002365      3.97       108.59       21.2        0.31
St John's Church     185       50 Yr        0.66        511         589.83       597.85       594.31      598.14        0.002588      4.29       119.11       21.94       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.72        569         589.83       598.17       594.56      598.48        0.002748      4.51       126.14       22.43       0.34

St John's Church     166        2 Yr         1.2        161         590.34       593.56       593.06      594.21        0.010655      6.48        24.83       10.05       0.73
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        0.91        264         590.34       595.21       593.88      595.74        0.006554      5.86        45.06       14.42       0.58
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.79        337         590.34       596.16        594.6      596.66        0.004714      5.65        61.53       23.92       0.51
St John's Church     166       25 Yr        0.74        431         590.34       597.06       595.11      597.53        0.003727       5.6        84.17       26.32       0.46
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.78        511         590.34       597.56       595.49      598.06        0.003639      5.83        97.64       27.65       0.46
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.81        569         590.34       597.89       595.77      598.41         0.00361      5.99       106.76       28.51       0.46

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        0.56        161         590.34       593.73       592.92      594.05        0.004378      4.52        35.89       17.53       0.53
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.39        264         590.34       595.37       593.55      595.63        0.001749      4.13        69.4        23.37       0.37
St John's Church     156       10 Yr        0.36        337         590.34       596.31       593.94      596.56        0.001298      4.12        92.99       26.67       0.33
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.37        431         590.34       597.18       594.39      597.45        0.001146      4.32       117.57       29.6        0.32
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.42        511         590.34       597.68       594.73      597.98        0.001179      4.63        132.6       31.25       0.33
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.45        569         590.34        598         594.96      598.33        0.001206      4.85       142.82       32.33       0.34

St John's Church     131                   Bridge

St John's Church     130        2 Yr         0.2        161         589.49       593.81       591.59      593.93        0.001231      2.85        56.49        18         0.28
St John's Church     130        5 Yr        0.21        264         589.49       595.42       592.29      595.56        0.000828      3.06        88.36       21.65       0.25
St John's Church     130       10 Yr        0.22        337         589.49       596.35       592.72      596.51        0.000725      3.23       109.53       23.83       0.24
St John's Church     130       25 Yr        0.25        431         589.49       597.22       593.19      597.41        0.000719      3.54       131.13       25.98       0.24
St John's Church     130       50 Yr        0.29        511         589.49       597.71       593.57      597.93         0.00078      3.87       144.24       27.2        0.26
St John's Church     130       100 Yr       0.32        569         589.49       598.03       593.82      598.28        0.000825       4.1       153.08        28         0.27

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.86        161         588.99       592.83       592.31      593.82        0.017784      7.99       20.16        6.34        0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.31        264         588.99       594.12       593.48      595.42        0.018285      9.18       28.97        7.92        0.79
St John's Church     120       10 Yr         2.3        337         588.99       595.01       594.25      596.37        0.015248      9.45       37.93        13.15       0.75
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.91        431         588.99       596.18       595.48      597.29        0.010241      8.91       58.04        20.28       0.63
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        2.05        511         588.99       596.64       596.15      597.82        0.010252      9.35       67.74        22.15       0.64
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.13        569         588.99       596.95       596.47      598.16         0.01014      9.59       74.92        23.44       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.7        161         588.99       592.31       592.31      593.71        0.027913      9.49       16.96        6.08         1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.32        264         588.99       593.48       593.48       595.3        0.029212      10.83      24.38        6.66         1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr         3.5        337         588.99       594.25       594.25      596.24        0.027162      11.35      30.02        8.23        0.97
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        2.89        431         588.99       595.48       595.48      597.19        0.017496      10.75      44.94        16.75       0.81
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.73        511         588.99       596.15       596.15      597.75        0.014714      10.65      57.45        20.16       0.76
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.81        569         588.99       596.47       596.47      598.09        0.014397      10.89      64.04        21.45       0.76

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.95        161         588.51       591.48       591.48      592.51        0.018975      8.15       19.76        9.54         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.36        264         588.51       592.33       592.33      593.67        0.018892      9.28       28.46        10.86       1.01
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.54        337         588.51       592.86       592.86      594.35         0.01788      9.82       34.42        11.95        1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.74        431         588.51       593.45       593.45      595.14        0.016903      10.42      41.93        13.3        0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.88        511         588.51       593.91       593.91      595.73        0.016315      10.85      48.26        14.35       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr        2.8        569         588.51       594.35       594.35      596.12        0.015738      10.71      55.06        16.8        0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.99        161         588.32       590.88       590.54       591.4        0.009869      5.81       27.73        15.23       0.76
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.11        264         588.32       591.71       591.19      592.35        0.008504      6.41       41.22        17.1        0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.19        337         588.32       592.21       591.58      592.91        0.008058      6.75       49.94        18.21       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.28        431         588.32       592.76       592.03      593.55        0.007749      7.14       60.37        19.45       0.71
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.35        511         588.32       593.18       592.39      594.04        0.007615      7.44       68.68        20.38       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.41        569         588.32       593.46       592.63      594.36         0.00762      7.64       74.52        21.26       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.73        161         587.29       589.96       589.96      590.86        0.017614      7.61       21.15        11.8         1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.99        264         587.29       590.74       590.74      591.85        0.016505      8.46       31.19        13.95        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr        2.14        337         587.29       591.19       591.19      592.43        0.016055      8.93       37.74        15.16        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.33        431         587.29       591.68       591.68      593.07        0.015828      9.47       45.53        16.49        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.45        511         587.29       592.05       592.05      593.56        0.015175      9.86       52.09        18.94        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.51        569         587.29       592.32       592.32       593.9        0.014552      10.08      57.39        20.92       0.99
                                         Simulation G: Full build-out flows under existing site conditions and removal of 48-inch RCP
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan    Q Total     Min Ch El   W.S. Elev      Crit W.S.   E.G. Elev E.G. Slope     Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                          (lb/sq ft)    (cfs)          (ft)        (ft)          (ft)        (ft)       (ft/ft)     (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260         2 Yr         0.5       161         593.23       595.37        595.37      596.46     0.00555        8.35       19.29         9           1
St John's Church     260         5 Yr        0.65       264         593.23       596.21        596.21      597.71     0.00583        9.85       26.81         9         1.01
St John's Church     260        10 Yr        0.74       337         593.23       596.74        596.74      598.51    0.006041       10.68       31.56         9         1.01
St John's Church     260        25 Yr        0.78       431         593.23       597.55        597.55      599.44    0.005871       11.03       39.06       10.32         1
St John's Church     260        50 Yr        0.73       511         593.23       598.27        598.27      600.06    0.005338       10.74       47.59       13.34         1
St John's Church     260       100 Yr        0.72       569         593.23       598.66        598.66      600.44    0.005115       10.72       53.07       14.96         1

St John's Church     220         2 Yr       0.25         161         591.6       594.27                   594.83      0.002285       6.04      26.65         10         0.65
St John's Church     220         5 Yr       0.27         264         591.6       595.59                   596.27      0.001974       6.61      39.94         10         0.58
St John's Church     220        10 Yr        0.3         337         591.6       596.37                   597.14      0.001992       7.07      47.66         10         0.57
St John's Church     220        25 Yr       0.37         431         591.6       597.09                   598.05      0.002239       7.85      54.89         10         0.59
St John's Church     220        50 Yr       0.44         511         591.6       597.57                   598.67      0.003133       8.44      60.57        15.44       0.75
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.44         569         591.6       597.96                   599.08      0.003025       8.48      67.06        17.07       0.75

St John's Church     207         2 Yr       0.26         161         591.6        594.2                    594.8      0.002452       6.19       26           10         0.68
St John's Church     207         5 Yr       0.28         264         591.6       595.55                   596.24       0.00204       6.69      39.47         10         0.59
St John's Church     207        10 Yr       0.31         337         591.6       596.32                   597.11      0.002042       7.14      47.22         10         0.58
St John's Church     207        25 Yr       0.37         431         591.6       597.03                   598.01      0.002298       7.93      54.34         10          0.6
St John's Church     207        50 Yr       0.46         511         591.6       597.47                   598.63      0.003127       8.63      59.21        13.94       0.74
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.47         569         591.6       597.86                   599.04      0.003241       8.71      65.35        16.77       0.78

St John's Church     195         2 Yr       2.08         161         591.6       594.06       593.6       594.72      0.020268       6.56      24.56         10         0.74
St John's Church     195         5 Yr       2.06         264         591.6       595.46      594.39       596.19      0.015163       6.83      38.63         10         0.61
St John's Church     195        10 Yr       2.25         337         591.6       596.24      594.89       597.06      0.014989       7.26      46.41         10         0.59
St John's Church     195        25 Yr       2.72         431         591.6       596.94      595.46       597.95      0.016906       8.08      53.35         10         0.62
St John's Church     195        50 Yr       3.37         511         591.6       597.29      595.93       598.54      0.021129       8.97      56.97        11.03        0.7
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       3.88         569         591.6       597.55      596.25       598.93      0.027232       9.44      60.28        15.13       0.83

St John's Church     185         2 Yr        0.4         161        589.83       594.36      592.33       594.51      0.002535        3.1       51.89       16.58       0.31
St John's Church     185         5 Yr       0.45         264        589.83       595.79      593.03       595.98      0.002255       3.42       77.21       18.78        0.3
St John's Church     185        10 Yr       0.49         337        589.83       596.63      593.46       596.83      0.002182       3.61       93.36       20.06       0.29
St John's Church     185        25 Yr       0.56         431        589.83       597.43      593.95       597.67      0.002287       3.92      109.95       21.29        0.3
St John's Church     185        50 Yr       0.64         511        589.83       597.92      594.31        598.2      0.002505       4.24      120.55       22.04       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr        0.7         569        589.83       598.24      594.56       598.54      0.002661       4.46      127.65       22.53       0.33

St John's Church     166         2 Yr        0.9         161        590.34       593.89      593.06        594.4      0.007446       5.71        28.2       10.27       0.61
St John's Church     166         5 Yr       0.79         264        590.34       595.42      593.88       595.88      0.005435       5.49       48.12       14.65       0.53
St John's Church     166        10 Yr       0.73         337        590.34       596.29       594.6       596.75      0.004227       5.44       64.64       24.27       0.48
St John's Church     166        25 Yr        0.7         431        590.34       597.15      595.11       597.59      0.003498       5.48        86.4       26.55       0.45
St John's Church     166        50 Yr       0.75         511        590.34       597.65      595.49       598.12      0.003429       5.71        100        27.87       0.45
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.78         569        590.34       597.97      595.77       598.47      0.003408       5.87      109.25       28.74       0.45

St John's Church     156         2 Yr       1.02         161        590.34       593.75      593.06       594.31      0.008641       6.02       26.74       10.18       0.65
St John's Church     156         5 Yr       0.83         264        590.34       595.33      593.89       595.83      0.005553       5.67        46.8       14.55       0.55
St John's Church     156        10 Yr       0.77         337        590.34       596.21      594.59        596.7      0.004165       5.67       62.63       24.05       0.49
St John's Church     156        25 Yr       0.75         431        590.34       597.06      595.08       597.55      0.003377       5.77       84.12       26.32       0.45
St John's Church     156        50 Yr       0.81         511        590.34       597.55      595.47       598.08      0.003307       6.07       97.26       27.61       0.45
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.85         569        590.34       597.87      595.74       598.43      0.003288       6.29      106.14       28.45       0.46

St John's Church     146         2 Yr       1.21         161        590.34       593.55      593.06       594.21      0.010858       6.53       24.66       10.04       0.73
St John's Church     146         5 Yr       0.89         264        590.34       595.24      593.88       595.76       0.00635       5.79       45.56       14.46       0.58
St John's Church     146        10 Yr       0.79         337        590.34       596.16       594.6       596.66      0.004706       5.65       61.58       23.93       0.51
St John's Church     146        25 Yr       0.75         431        590.34       597.04      595.11       597.51      0.003799       5.64       83.51       26.25       0.46
St John's Church     146        50 Yr       0.79         511        590.34       597.53      595.49       598.04      0.003713       5.87       96.86       27.57       0.46
St John's Church     146       100 Yr       0.82         569        590.34       597.86      595.77       598.38      0.003685       6.04      105.89       28.43       0.47

St John's Church     120         2 Yr       1.86         161        588.99       592.83      592.31       593.82      0.017784       7.99      20.16         6.34       0.79
St John's Church     120         5 Yr       2.31         264        588.99       594.12      593.48       595.42      0.018285       9.18      28.97         7.92       0.79
St John's Church     120        10 Yr        2.3         337        588.99       595.01      594.25       596.37      0.015248       9.45      37.93        13.15       0.75
St John's Church     120        25 Yr       1.91         431        588.99       596.18      595.48       597.29      0.010241       8.91      58.04        20.28       0.63
St John's Church     120        50 Yr       2.05         511        588.99       596.64      596.15       597.82      0.010252       9.35      67.74        22.15       0.64
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.13         569        588.99       596.95      596.47       598.16       0.01014       9.59      74.92        23.44       0.64

St John's Church     117         2 Yr        2.7         161        588.99       592.31      592.31       593.71      0.027913       9.49      16.96         6.08         1
St John's Church     117         5 Yr       3.32         264        588.99       593.48      593.48        595.3      0.029212      10.83      24.38         6.66         1
St John's Church     117        10 Yr        3.5         337        588.99       594.25      594.25       596.24      0.027162      11.35      30.02         8.23       0.97
St John's Church     117        25 Yr       2.89         431        588.99       595.48      595.48       597.19      0.017496      10.75      44.94        16.75       0.81
St John's Church     117        50 Yr       2.73         511        588.99       596.15      596.15       597.75      0.014714      10.65      57.45        20.16       0.76
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.81         569        588.99       596.47      596.47       598.09      0.014397      10.89      64.04        21.45       0.76

St John's Church      83         2 Yr       1.95         161        588.51       591.48      591.48       592.51      0.018975       8.15      19.76         9.54         1
St John's Church      83         5 Yr       2.36         264        588.51       592.33      592.33       593.67      0.018892       9.28      28.46        10.86       1.01
St John's Church      83        10 Yr       2.54         337        588.51       592.86      592.86       594.35       0.01788       9.82      34.42        11.95         1
St John's Church      83        25 Yr       2.74         431        588.51       593.45      593.45       595.14      0.016903      10.42      41.93         13.3       0.99
St John's Church      83        50 Yr       2.88         511        588.51       593.91      593.91       595.73      0.016315      10.85      48.26        14.35       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr        2.8         569        588.51       594.35      594.35       596.12      0.015738      10.71      55.06         16.8       0.99

St John's Church      60         2 Yr       0.99         161        588.32       590.88      590.54        591.4      0.009869       5.81      27.73        15.23       0.76
St John's Church      60         5 Yr       1.11         264        588.32       591.71      591.19       592.35      0.008504       6.41      41.22         17.1       0.73
St John's Church      60        10 Yr       1.19         337        588.32       592.21      591.58       592.91      0.008058       6.75      49.94        18.21       0.72
St John's Church      60        25 Yr       1.28         431        588.32       592.76      592.03       593.55      0.007749       7.14      60.37        19.45       0.71
St John's Church      60        50 Yr       1.35         511        588.32       593.18      592.39       594.04      0.007615       7.44      68.68        20.38       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.41         569        588.32       593.46      592.63       594.36       0.00762       7.64      74.52        21.26       0.72

St John's Church      21         2 Yr       1.73         161        587.29       589.96      589.96       590.86      0.017614       7.61      21.15         11.8         1
St John's Church      21         5 Yr       1.99         264        587.29       590.74      590.74       591.85      0.016505       8.46      31.19        13.95         1
St John's Church      21        10 Yr       2.14         337        587.29       591.19      591.19       592.43      0.016055       8.93      37.74        15.16         1
St John's Church      21        25 Yr       2.33         431        587.29       591.68      591.68       593.07      0.015828       9.47      45.53        16.49         1
St John's Church      21        50 Yr       2.45         511        587.29       592.05      592.05       593.56      0.015175       9.86      52.09        18.94         1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.51         569        587.29       592.32      592.32        593.9      0.014552      10.08      57.39        20.92       0.99
                                          Simulation H: Full build-out flows under project site conditions and removal of 48-inch RCP
    Reach          River Sta   Profile   Shear Chan    Q Total      Min Ch El   W.S. Elev     Crit W.S.   E.G. Elev E.G. Slope     Vel Chnl   Flow Area   Top Width Froude # Chl
                                           (lb/sq ft)    (cfs)          (ft)       (ft)          (ft)         (ft)       (ft/ft)    (ft/s)      (sq ft)      (ft)
St John's Church     260        2 Yr           0.5       161         593.23      595.37        595.37       596.46    0.005558       8.35       19.28         9         1.01
St John's Church     260        5 Yr          0.65       264         593.23      596.21        596.21       597.71     0.00583       9.85       26.81         9         1.01
St John's Church     260       10 Yr          0.74       337         593.23      596.74        596.74       598.51    0.006041      10.68       31.56         9         1.01
St John's Church     260       25 Yr          0.78       431         593.23      597.55        597.55       599.44    0.005871      11.03       39.06       10.32        1
St John's Church     260       50 Yr          0.73       511         593.23      598.27        598.27       600.06    0.005338      10.74       47.59       13.34        1
St John's Church     260       100 Yr         0.72       569         593.23      598.66        598.66       600.44    0.005115      10.72       53.07       14.96        1

St John's Church     220        2 Yr        0.27         161         591.6       594.15      593.61       594.77      0.002607      6.32       25.46         10          0.7
St John's Church     220        5 Yr         0.3         264         591.6       595.45      594.38       596.18      0.002191      6.87       38.45         10         0.62
St John's Church     220       10 Yr        0.32         337         591.6       596.27      594.88       597.08      0.002105      7.22       46.69         10         0.59
St John's Church     220       25 Yr        0.38         431         591.6       597.02      595.47        598        0.002315      7.95       54.19         10          0.6
St John's Church     220       50 Yr        0.46         511         591.6       597.46      595.93       598.62      0.003124      8.65       59.05        13.76       0.74
St John's Church     220       100 Yr       0.46         569         591.6       597.89      596.23       599.05      0.003178      8.64       65.84        16.86       0.77

St John's Church     207        2 Yr         0.3         161         591.6       594.06                   594.73      0.002871      6.54       24.62         10         0.73
St John's Church     207        5 Yr        0.31         264         591.6       595.39                   596.14      0.002282      6.97       37.89         10         0.63
St John's Church     207       10 Yr        0.32         337         591.6       596.22                   597.05      0.002168      7.3        46.18         10          0.6
St John's Church     207       25 Yr        0.38         431         591.6       596.96                   597.97      0.002381      8.04       53.62         10         0.61
St John's Church     207       50 Yr        0.47         511         591.6       597.37                   598.58      0.003081      8.83       57.89        12.31       0.72
St John's Church     207       100 Yr       0.49         569         591.6       597.77                    599        0.003439      8.9        63.92        16.51        0.8

St John's Church     195        2 Yr        2.67         161         591.6        593.8      593.61       594.63      0.028085      7.33       21.95         10         0.87
St John's Church     195        5 Yr        2.29         264         591.6       595.28      594.38       596.08      0.017329      7.17        36.8         10         0.66
St John's Church     195       10 Yr        2.38         337         591.6       596.13      594.88       596.99      0.016012      7.44       45.29         10         0.62
St John's Church     195       25 Yr        2.81         431         591.6       596.86      595.47        597.9      0.017587       8.2       52.56         10         0.63
St John's Church     195       50 Yr        3.44         511         591.6       597.21      595.93        598.5      0.020819      9.11        56.1         10         0.68
St John's Church     195       100 Yr       4.04         569         591.6       597.43      596.23       598.89      0.027035      9.71       58.61        13.22       0.81

St John's Church     185        2 Yr        0.46         161        589.83       594.19      592.33       594.36     0.002962       3.28        49.09       16.32       0.33
St John's Church     185        5 Yr        0.49         264        589.83       595.65      593.03       595.85     0.002485       3.54        74.52       18.56       0.31
St John's Church     185       10 Yr        0.51         337        589.83       596.53      593.46       596.74     0.002304       3.68        91.52       19.92        0.3
St John's Church     185       25 Yr        0.57         431        589.83       597.36      593.95       597.61     0.002365       3.97       108.59        21.2       0.31
St John's Church     185       50 Yr        0.66         511        589.83       597.85      594.31       598.14     0.002588       4.29       119.11       21.94       0.32
St John's Church     185       100 Yr       0.72         569        589.83       598.17      594.56       598.48     0.002748       4.51       126.14       22.43       0.34

St John's Church     166        2 Yr         1.2         161        590.34       593.56      593.06       594.21      0.010655      6.48        24.83       10.05       0.73
St John's Church     166        5 Yr        0.91         264        590.34       595.21      593.88       595.74      0.006554      5.86        45.06       14.42       0.58
St John's Church     166       10 Yr        0.79         337        590.34       596.16       594.6       596.66      0.004714      5.65       61.53        23.92       0.51
St John's Church     166       25 Yr        0.74         431        590.34       597.06      595.11       597.53      0.003727      5.6        84.17        26.32       0.46
St John's Church     166       50 Yr        0.78         511        590.34       597.56      595.49       598.06      0.003639      5.83       97.64        27.65       0.46
St John's Church     166       100 Yr       0.81         569        590.34       597.89      595.77       598.41      0.00361       5.99       106.76       28.51       0.46

St John's Church     156        2 Yr        0.56         161        590.34       593.73      592.92       594.05      0.004378      4.52        35.89       17.53       0.53
St John's Church     156        5 Yr        0.39         264        590.34       595.37      593.55       595.63      0.001749      4.13        69.4        23.37       0.37
St John's Church     156       10 Yr        0.36         337        590.34       596.31      593.94       596.56      0.001298      4.12       92.99        26.67       0.33
St John's Church     156       25 Yr        0.37         431        590.34       597.18      594.39       597.45      0.001146      4.32       117.57       29.6        0.32
St John's Church     156       50 Yr        0.42         511        590.34       597.68      594.73       597.98      0.001179      4.63       132.6        31.25       0.33
St John's Church     156       100 Yr       0.45         569        590.34        598        594.96       598.33      0.001206      4.85       142.82       32.33       0.34

St John's Church     131                   Bridge

St John's Church     130        2 Yr         0.2         161        589.49       593.81      591.59       593.93     0.001231       2.85        56.49         18        0.28
St John's Church     130        5 Yr        0.21         264        589.49       595.42      592.29       595.56     0.000828       3.06        88.36       21.65       0.25
St John's Church     130       10 Yr        0.22         337        589.49       596.35      592.72       596.51     0.000725       3.23       109.53       23.83       0.24
St John's Church     130       25 Yr        0.25         431        589.49       597.22      593.19       597.41     0.000719       3.54       131.13       25.98       0.24
St John's Church     130       50 Yr        0.29         511        589.49       597.71      593.57       597.93      0.00078       3.87       144.24        27.2       0.26
St John's Church     130       100 Yr       0.32         569        589.49       598.03      593.82       598.28     0.000825       4.1        153.08         28        0.27

St John's Church     120        2 Yr        1.86         161        588.99       592.83      592.31       593.82      0.017784      7.99       20.16        6.34        0.79
St John's Church     120        5 Yr        2.31         264        588.99       594.12      593.48       595.42      0.018285      9.18       28.97        7.92        0.79
St John's Church     120       10 Yr         2.3         337        588.99       595.01      594.25       596.37      0.015248      9.45       37.93        13.15       0.75
St John's Church     120       25 Yr        1.91         431        588.99       596.18      595.48       597.29      0.010241      8.91       58.04        20.28       0.63
St John's Church     120       50 Yr        2.05         511        588.99       596.64      596.15       597.82      0.010252      9.35       67.74        22.15       0.64
St John's Church     120       100 Yr       2.13         569        588.99       596.95      596.47       598.16      0.01014       9.59       74.92        23.44       0.64

St John's Church     117        2 Yr         2.7         161        588.99       592.31      592.31       593.71     0.027913        9.49      16.96         6.08        1
St John's Church     117        5 Yr        3.32         264        588.99       593.48      593.48        595.3     0.029212       10.83      24.38         6.66        1
St John's Church     117       10 Yr         3.5         337        588.99       594.25      594.25       596.24     0.027162       11.35      30.02         8.23       0.97
St John's Church     117       25 Yr        2.89         431        588.99       595.48      595.48       597.19     0.017496       10.75      44.94        16.75       0.81
St John's Church     117       50 Yr        2.73         511        588.99       596.15      596.15       597.75     0.014714       10.65      57.45        20.16       0.76
St John's Church     117       100 Yr       2.81         569        588.99       596.47      596.47       598.09     0.014397       10.89      64.04        21.45       0.76

St John's Church      83        2 Yr        1.95         161        588.51       591.48      591.48       592.51      0.018975      8.15       19.76        9.54         1
St John's Church      83        5 Yr        2.36         264        588.51       592.33      592.33       593.67      0.018892      9.28       28.46        10.86       1.01
St John's Church      83       10 Yr        2.54         337        588.51       592.86      592.86       594.35      0.01788       9.82       34.42        11.95        1
St John's Church      83       25 Yr        2.74         431        588.51       593.45      593.45       595.14      0.016903      10.42      41.93        13.3        0.99
St John's Church      83       50 Yr        2.88         511        588.51       593.91      593.91       595.73      0.016315      10.85      48.26        14.35       0.99
St John's Church      83       100 Yr       2.8          569        588.51       594.35      594.35       596.12      0.015738      10.71      55.06        16.8        0.99

St John's Church      60        2 Yr        0.99         161        588.32       590.88      590.54        591.4      0.009869      5.81       27.73        15.23       0.76
St John's Church      60        5 Yr        1.11         264        588.32       591.71      591.19       592.35      0.008504      6.41       41.22        17.1        0.73
St John's Church      60       10 Yr        1.19         337        588.32       592.21      591.58       592.91      0.008058      6.75       49.94        18.21       0.72
St John's Church      60       25 Yr        1.28         431        588.32       592.76      592.03       593.55      0.007749      7.14       60.37        19.45       0.71
St John's Church      60       50 Yr        1.35         511        588.32       593.18      592.39       594.04      0.007615      7.44       68.68        20.38       0.71
St John's Church      60       100 Yr       1.41         569        588.32       593.46      592.63       594.36      0.00762       7.64       74.52        21.26       0.72

St John's Church      21        2 Yr        1.73         161        587.29       589.96      589.96       590.86      0.017614      7.61       21.15         11.8        1
St John's Church      21        5 Yr        1.99         264        587.29       590.74      590.74       591.85      0.016505      8.46       31.19        13.95        1
St John's Church      21       10 Yr        2.14         337        587.29       591.19      591.19       592.43      0.016055      8.93       37.74        15.16        1
St John's Church      21       25 Yr        2.33         431        587.29       591.68      591.68       593.07      0.015828      9.47       45.53        16.49        1
St John's Church      21       50 Yr        2.45         511        587.29       592.05      592.05       593.56      0.015175      9.86       52.09        18.94        1
St John's Church      21       100 Yr       2.51         569        587.29       592.32      592.32       593.9       0.014552      10.08      57.39        20.92       0.99
                Appendix C:
   Proposed Bridge Bank Treatments and
Project Tree Preservation and Planting Plans




                     38
May 18, 2010

Mr. Kyle Simpson
Design, Community & Environment
1625 Shattuck Avenue, Suite 300
Berkeley, CA 94709

Subject: Peer Review Comments for Kamman Hydrology Report Revised May 3, 2010
         and received May 14, 2010, St. Johns Church, Oakland, Ca

Dear Kyle:

As requested, I have reviewed the subject report (latest revision dated May 3, 2010) and
in general I agree with the conclusions of the report that that the proposed clear span
bridge project should pose no significant adverse impacts to Temescal Creek if the work
is conducted as proposed. As part of this work I reviewed both the current and previous
versions of Hydrology Report and provided comments that were subsequently addressed
in revised versions of the report. In addition, I conducted a site visit on April 22, 2010 to
visually inspect site conditions. I did no independent review or calculation of quantity
and flow estimates (i.e. drainage, land use area and usage estimates). Nor did I conduct
any independent surveying and have relied on the information provided within the report
as accurate.

Although there are always different approaches to generating and analyzing flood flows
in an ungauged creek, I concur with the approach taken within the KHE report to assess
the hydraulic impacts of the proposed project. I believe that the range of project
alternatives analyzed to assess hydraulic impacts to the creek was very thorough and
covered the range of conditions that could reasonably be expected to occur through the
project site.

During my site visit, I noticed that the existing upstream bank conditions were in
somewhat worse condition then identified in the previous version of the report. The
upstream bank next to the outlet culvert was covered in heavy plastic and sandbagged ­
typically evidence of bank erosion and stability issues. An existing log that crosses the
creek (station 117) and could potentially create backwater erosion issues, is proposed to
be removed and KHE has modified the report to clearly state that the proposed project
will create no backwater conditions that would exacerbate the existing upstream bank
erosion.

During my previous reviews, I did have a number of comments and questions which were
all satisfactorily addressed by KHE in the revised submittal. Please do not hesitate to
contact me at 510-644-2798 ext 2 with any questions or comments.
Sincerely,


Roger Leventhal, P.E.
Principal Engineer
A   P P E N D I X                   H




GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
                 Land/Marine
                 Geotechnics
                 Geotechnical Consultants




GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION
St. John's Episcopal Church
Entry Road, Bridge Parking and New
Sanctuary
Oakland, California



Prepared for:
St John's Episcopal Church
Oakland, California




May 2005
Project No. 110.001
                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS



1.0   INTRODUCTION ...............................................................................................................1

2.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................1

3.0   SCOPE OF SERVICES .......................................................................................................2

4.0   FIELD INVESTIGATION ..................................................................................................3
      4.1   Test Borings .............................................................................................................3
      4.2   Review of Previous Investigation Data ...................................................................4

5.0   LABORATORY TESTING ................................................................................................4

6,0   REGIONAL GEOLOGY AND SEISMISITY....................................................................4
      6.1  Regional Geology ....................................................................................................4
      6.2  Seismicity ................................................................................................................5

7.0   SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS ..........................................................................................6
      7.1  Creek and Bridge Area ............................................................................................6
      7.2  Parking Grove and Fire Truck Turnaround .............................................................7
      7.3  New Sanctuary Area ................................................................................................8

8.0   DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................................................................9
      8.1  Seismic Hazards.......................................................................................................9
           8..1.1 Soil Liquefaction and Associated Hazards ..................................................9
           8.1.2 Cyclic Densification ..................................................................................10
           8.1.3 Fault Rupture .............................................................................................10
      8.2  Creek and Bridge Area ..........................................................................................10
      8.3  Sanctuary Building ................................................................................................12
           8.3.1 Foundations................................................................................................12
           8.3.2 Hillside Stability and Site Retaining Wall .................................................12
      8.4  Parking Grove and Fire Truck Turnaround ...........................................................14

9.0   RECOMMENDATIONS...................................................................................................14
      9.1 Site Grading ...........................................................................................................14
          9.1.1 Site Preparation and Fill Placement...........................................................14
          9.1.2 Placement of Select Fill .............................................................................15
          9.1.3 Utility Trench Backfill...............................................................................16
      9.2 New Sanctuary Foundation Support......................................................................16
          9.2.1 Spread Footings .........................................................................................16
          9.2.2 Drilled Piers ...............................................................................................17
          9.3 Site Retaining Wall along Base of Hillside ..................................................18
      9.4 Drainage.................................................................................................................19
      9.5 Slab-on-Grade Floors.............................................................................................19


                                                                i
       9.6       Exterior Concrete Flatwork ...................................................................................21
       9.7       Bridge Foundations................................................................................................21
                 9.7.1 Drilled Piers ...............................................................................................21
                 9.7.2 Bridge Abutment Retaining Walls.............................................................23
       9.8       Pavements ..............................................................................................................24
                 9.8.1 Asphalt Pavements.....................................................................................24
                 9.8.2 Concrete Pavements...................................................................................25
                 9.8.3 Interlocking Concrete Pavers.....................................................................25
                 9.8.4 Permeable Pavers .......................................................................................25
                 9.8.5 Pavement Edge Treatment .........................................................................28
       9.9       Seismic Design ......................................................................................................28

10.0   ADDITIONAL GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES ...............................................................29

11.0   LIMITATIONS..................................................................................................................29

FIGURES

APPENDIX A

APPENDIX B

APPENDIX C

APPENDIX D

DISTRIBUTION




                                                                  ii
       LIST OF FIGURES

Figure 1      Site Location Map

Figure 2      Site Plan

Figure 3      Subsurface Profiles

Figure 4      Bridge Drilled Pier-Lateral Load Unrestrained Case

Figure 5      Bridge Drilled Pier-Lateral Load Restrained Case


         APPENDIX A
       Log of Test Borings

Figures A-1   Logs of Test Borings B-1through B8
through A-8
Figure A-9    Soil Classification Chart

Figure A-10   Rock Classification Chart


         APPENDIX B
     Laboratory Test Results

Figure B-1    Plasticity Chart

Figure B-2    Unconfined Compression Test

Figure B-3    Particle Size Analysis

Figure B-4    Particle Size Analysis




                 iii
                       GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION
                        ST. JOHN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH
               ENTRY ROAD, BRIDGE, PARKING AND NEW SANCTUARY
                               Oakland, California

1.0     INTRODUCTION

This report presents the results of the geotechnical investigation performed by Land Marine
Geotechnics for the proposed improve ments to St. John's Episcopal Church in Oakland,
California. Our services were provided in accordance with our proposal dated August 27, 2004.


The site is located at 1707 Gouldin Road as shown on the Site Location Map and Site Plan,
Figures 1 and 2, respectively.


2.0     PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The project will involve the construction of a new entry road and bridge across Temescal Creek, to
provide access to the Church property from Thornhill Boulevard. Additional parking will be provided
along the entry road. The entry road and additional parking will be located on property that was
recently acquired by the church. The existing house on the property will be demolished and moderated
cuts and fill are anticipated to grade the new entry road and parking area. The project will incorporate
permeable pavements and onsite infiltration of storm water to the extent practical.

The new vehicular bridge will be about 22 feet wide with a 5 foot pedestrian walkway and will clear
span about 60 feet across the creek. We anticipate that deep foundations will be needed for the bridge
abutments. As part of the project, portions of Temescal Creek may be improved to reduce future
erosion and slope instability.

As a future phase of construction, a new Sanctuary building will be constructed southeast of the
existing Parish Hall. The Sanctuary will likely be a tall single story structure. The south wall of the
Sanctuary will be cut into the hillside. As a result, a site retaining wall may be needed along the south



                                                    1
side of the new building. The hillside shows indications of historic instability that will need to be
mitigated during site development.

3.0     SCOPE OF SERVICES

Our scope of services, as outlined in our proposal, consisted of exploring the subsurface
conditions at the site and performing laboratory tests and engineering analyses to develop
conclusions and recommendations regarding:

        ·   soil and groundwater conditions at the site

        ·   site geology and seismicity

        ·   the most appropriate foundation type(s) for the proposed bridges, sanctuary and site
            retaining walls

        ·   design criteria for the recommended foundation type(s), including vertical, lateral,
            and uplift capacities

        ·   estimated foundation settlement

        ·   site seismicity and seismic hazards, including the potential for liquefaction, lateral
            spreading, cyclic densification, and estimated seismically- induced settlement, if any

        ·   landslide hazards both on the creek banks and on the slope along the south-east side
            of the property

        ·   measures to mitigate seismic and landslide hazards, if appropriate

        ·   site grading and subgrade preparation, including fill quality and compaction
            requirements

        ·   retaining wall design parameters, as required

        ·   2001 California Building Code soil profile type and near-source factors

        ·   geotechnical input to permeable pavement alternatives

        ·   construction considerations




                                                     2
4.0    FIELD INVESTIGATION

4.1    Test Borings

Subsurface conditions at the site were explored by drilling eight test borings, designated as B-1
through B-8. The approximate locations of the borings are shown on Figure 2. The borings were
drilled on March 23 and 24, 2005 using a truck- mounted drill, a track-mounted rig and a portable
Minute Man drill rig equipped with solid flight augers. The boring depths ranged from 10 feet
(B- 2) to 30.5 feet (B- 8) below ground surface (bgs). During drilling, our field geologist logged
the soil encountered and obtained samples for visual classification and laboratory testing. Logs
of the borings are presented in Appendix A on Figures A-1 through A-8. The materials
encountered are classified according to the soil classification system described on Figure A-9.
Rock is described in accordance with the criteria presented on Figure A-10.


Soil samples were obtained using the following samplers:

       ·   Standard Penetration Test (SPT) sampler with a 2.0- inch-outside diameter and a
           1.5-inch- inside diameter, without liners

       ·   Modified California (Mod Cal) split-barrel sampler with a 3.0- inch-outside diameter,
           2.5-inch- inside diameter, lined with brass tubes with an inside diameter of 2.43
           inches.


For Borings B-1 through B-5 and B-7 the SPT and Mod Cal samplers were driven with a 140-
pound, hammer falling approximately 30 inches. For Borings B-6 and B-8 the samplers were
driven with a hand-held 70-pound hammer falling approximately 30 inches. The blow counts
required to drive the samplers the final 12- inches of an 18- inch drive are shown on the boring
logs. Where the SPT sampler and the 140-pound hammer falling 30- inches was used the blow
counts represent SPT N-values. Blow count using other samplers or the hand operated hammer
should be converted to obtain approximate SPT N-values. After completion, the borings were
backfilled with soil cuttings.




                                                 3
4.2       Review of Previous Investigation Data

We reviewed available published and unpublished geologic map and other information regarding
the geology and soil conditions in the vicinity. This included visiting the City of Oakland
Building Department and checking for records of historic landslides or foundation distress on or
near the property. In addition, we reviewed stereo pairs of historical air photographs of the area
to evaluate what past grading has occurred and areas of past slope instability.


5.0       LABORATORY TESTING

We re-examined soil samples from the borings in our office to confirm field classifications and
selected representative soil samples for testing. Selected samples were tested to measure
moisture content, dry density, plasticity index, sieve analysis, strength, and permeability. The
laboratory test results are presented on the boring logs and in Appendix B on Figures B-1
through B-4.


6,0       REGIONAL GEOLOGY AND SEISMISITY

6.1       Regional Geology

The site is located in the Northern California Coast Ranges geomorphic province, which is
dominated by northwest-trending faults and folds. Published geologic maps 1 indicate that the site
is underlain at depth and near the ground surface on the east side of the site by claystone and
sandstone bedrock of the Cretaceous age Redwood Canyon formation (Kr) and by unnamed
Tertiary age mudstone (Tes). As shown on Figure 2, the mudstone underlies the northern portion
of the site and the Redwood Canyon Formation underlies the southern portion. The contact
between the Kr and Tes is by an inactive thrust fault.


The bedrock is covered by surficial Quaternary age deposits, there is a large regional landslide
(mapped Qls) along the east side of the site. The extent of the landslide deposit, as shown by the
USGS is presented on Figure 3. The majority of the site is underlain at shallow depth by alluvial

1
    Radbruch, D. H. 1969 Areal and Engineering Geology of the Oakland East Quadrangle, California
      USGS Quad Map GQ67


                                                   4
and colluvial soils (Qal/Qc. Alluvium and Colluvium consists of soils that have been deposited
on the valley floor by the action of water and downslope movement of soils on the adjacent
hillsides. The stream channel of Temescal Creek has meandered within the valley floor over
time. Recent Holocene age stream channel deposits are present along the west bank of the creek.
These deposits appear to have been deposited against an eroded surface within the Qal/Qc.


6.2       Seismicity

The major active faults in the area are the Hayward, Calaveras, and San Andreas, Faults. For
each of the active faults within 50 kilometers (km) of the site, the distance from the site and
estimated maximum Moment magnitude 2,3 events are summarized in Table 1.


                                                  TABLE 1
                                     Regional Faults and Seismicity


                                                     Approximate
                                                   Distance from Site         Direction        Maximum
                Fault Segment                            (km)                 from Site        Magnitude
              Northern Hayward                              0.7               Southwest             6.6
               Hayward - Total                              0.7               Southwest             7.1
              Southern Hayward                               6                Southeast             6.9
             Mount Diablo Thrust                            15                  East                6.7
              Northern Calaveras                            16                   East               7.0
                    Concord                                 21                Northeast             6.5
            Southern Green Valley                           27                 North                6.5
             Northern Greenville                            28                Northeast             6.6
                Rodgers Creek                               30                  North               7.1
         San Andreas - 1906 Rupture                         31                Southwest             7.9
           San Andreas - Peninsula                          31                Southwest             7.2
      San Andreas - North Coast South                       34                   West               7.5

2
      Moment magnitude is an energy-based scale and provides a physically meaningful measure of the
      size of a faulting event. Moment magnitude is directly related to average slip and fault rupture area.
3
      California Division of Mines and Geology, 1996, Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Assessment for the
      State of California , CDMG Open-File Report 96-08.


                                                       5
               Great Valley - 6                         34                Northeast          6.7
              Central Greenville                        36                  East             6.7
             San Gregorio North                         36                 West              7.3
                 West Napa                              36                 North             6.5
               Great Valley - 5                         39                Northeast          6.5
                 Point Reyes                            49                  West             6.8



In 2002, the Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities at the U.S. Geologic Survey
(USGS) predicted a 62 percent probability of a magnitude 6.7 or greater earthquake occurring in
the San Francisco Bay Area by the year 2030 4 . Smaller earthquakes (between magnitudes 6.0
and 6.7), capable of considerable damage if they occur in proximity to urban areas, have about
an 80 percent chance of occurring in the Bay Area by 2032.


7.0      SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS

Our interpretation of subsurface conditions at the site is presented on Figure 3 - Subsurface
Profiles. For purposed of discussion we have divided the site in to the three areas of importance
to the proposed improvements including; bridge and creek banks, parking grove and fire truck
turnaround, new sanctuary area including existing hillside to the east.


7.1      Creek and Bridge Area

As shown on the subsurface profile, the south side of the creek is underlain by alluvial and
colluvial soils which primarily consist of stiff silty to sandy clays. A 2-foot-thick clayey gravel
layer was encountered within the predominately clayey soils at a depth of about 4 feet in Boring
B-8; bedrock was encountered at a depth of about 17 feet. The west side of the creek is underlain
by a surficial layer of fat silty clay which extends to a depth about 3 feet. The surface clay is in
turn underlain by loose silty and clayey sand and gravels which extend to bedrock at a depth of
about 22 feet. The sandy soils are susceptible highly susceptible to erosion and to liquefaction


4
      Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities (WGCEP), 2002, Earthquake Probabilities in
      the San Francisco Bay region; 2000 to 2032 ­ A Summary of Findings, Open File Report 99-517.


                                                   6
during a seismic shaking. Slope failure and erosion have resulted in a steep creek bank slope near
the proposed west bridge abutment.


Bedrock underlying the north side of the creek consist of claystone and sandstone which varies
greatly from being hard and moderately strong to low hardness and weak. On the south side of
the creek the bedrock encountered in Boring 8 was completely weathered to residual soil.


7.2     Parking Grove and Fire Truck Turnaround

The parking grove and fire truck turnaround are underlain by alluvial and colluvial soils
primarily consisting of medium stiff to stiff silty clays, with occasional layers of medium dense
clayey gravel. The surface soils have a moderate to high plasticity and expansion potential.
Boring B-3 located at the top of a slope along the north side of the parking lot encountered about
5 feet of fill apparently placed during the original grading of the parking lot. The fill consists of
medium stiff clay and contains abundant rock fragments. The fill appears to have been
moderately compacted but likely does not meet current day compaction standards for engineered
fill.


Permeability tests were conducted to evaluate the feasibility of permeable pavements with
exfiltration into the subgrade soils. The test results indicated permeability varying from 1.4 E-08
to 5.0 E-07 centimeters per second. These are relatively low values indicating a very slow
infiltration rate from the pavement components into the subgrade soils.


In the area of Boring 3 claystone bedrock was encountered at a depth of 7 feet. Boring B-7
extended to a depth of 15.5 feet and did not encounter bedrock. The rock is moderately hard and
varies from weak to moderately strong.


Groundwater was encountered at depth of about 9 and 6 feet in borings B-3 and B-7,
respectively. Groundwater levels will likely vary seasonally.




                                                   7
7.3     New Sanctuary Area

Subsurface conditions in the proposed new sanctuary area vary across the proposed building site.
Weathered claystone bedrock of the Redwood Canyon formation exists at shallow depth below
the pavement along the base of the hillside to the southwest. Near the center of the building area
and along the north side we interpret that there may be up to 4 feet of medium dense clayey sand
and medium stiff to silty clay fill. Similar to the parking grove area, the fill appears to have been
moderately compacted but likely does not meet current day compaction standards for engineered
fill. The fill is underlain alluvial and colluvial soils. These soils consist of stiff to medium stiff
clay and medium dense clayey sand that extend to depths of about 20 feet. The alluvial soils are
in turn underlain by claystone bedrock. Within the depths explored the bedrock materials are
closely fractured of low hardness, weak to moderately strong, and exhibit varying degrees of
weathering.


Groundwater was encountered in boring B-1 at a depth about 7 feet just following drilling.
Extensive seepage was observed along the base of the retaining wall to the southwest indicating
that groundwater levels adjacent to the base of the hill are elevated during and following rainfall.
Water in fractures within the rock may be under excess hydrostatic pressure during the wet
winter months resulting in springs at the toe of the slope adjacent to the building area following
particularly wet periods.


The hillside on the southwest side of the site is the lower portion of a mapped regional landslide
deposit within the Redwood Canyon formation. The ground surface in the areas is irregular and
has numerous surface features indicative of historic shallow landsliding and soil creep. Boring B-
6 that was drilled on the hillside encountered about 5 feet of medium stiff clay colluvial soils
overlying fractured bedrock. During drilling a soft zone of wet, completely sheared rock was
encountered at depth of 9.5 feet. This zone was interpreted as a slide plane along which down
slope movement is occurring. Groundwater under excess pressure was encountered below the
slide plane and rose to about 5 feet once the slide plane was penetrated. Siltstone bedrock that
becomes harder and stronger with depth was encountered below the slide plane.




                                                    8
8.0       DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS

We conclude that from a geotechnical engineering standpoint, the site can be developed as
proposed, provided the recommendations presented in this report are incorporated into the
project plans and specifications, and are implemented during construction. Potential seismic
hazards and the primary geotechnical concern for each of the project elements are discussed
below.

8.1       Seismic Hazards

During a major earthquake on a segment of one of the nearby faults, strong to very strong
shaking is expected to occur at the site. The seismic risk at the site is dominated by the Hayward
fault, located 0.7 km to the southwest. Strong shaking during an earthquake can result in ground
failure such as that associated with soil liquefaction5 , lateral spreading 6 , and cyclic
densification7 . We used data from the test borings to evaluate the potential for these phenomena
to occur at the site. The results of our evaluation are presented below.


8.1.1     Soil Liquefaction and Associated Hazards

We evaluated the liquefaction potential of soil layers encountered in our borings and concluded
that with the exception of the stream channel deposits north of the creek, the soils are either
sufficiently dense or contain fines content such that they are not susceptible to liquefaction.          As
a result, we conclude the potential for lateral spreading and for sand boils and lurch cracking at
the ground surface is nil. Liquefaction and lateral spreading within the creek channel deposits is
discussed in Section 8.2.




5
      Liquefaction is a transformation of soil from a solid to a liquefied state during which saturated soil
      temporarily loses strength resulting from the buildup of excess pore water pressure, especially during
      earthquake-induced cyclic loading. Soil susceptible to liquefaction includes loose to medium dense
      sand and gravel, and low-plasticity silt deposits.
6
      Lateral spreading is a phenomenon in which surficial soil displaces along a shear zone that has
      formed within an underlying liquefied layer. Upon reaching mobilization, the surficial blocks are
      transported down slope or in the direction of a free face by earthquake and gravitational forces.
7
      Cyclic densification is a phenomenon in which non-saturated, cohesionless soil is compacted by
      earthquake vibrations, causing differential settlement.


                                                       9
8.1.2   Cyclic Densification

Seismically induced compaction or cyclic densification of non-saturated sand (sand above the
groundwater table) due to earthquake vibrations can result in settlement of the ground surface.
Our field investigation indicates that the soil above groundwater is predominately medium stiff
to very stiff clay. Therefore, we estimate the potential for ground surface settlement due to
cyclic densification is nil.


8.1.3   Fault Rupture

Historically, ground surface displacements closely follow the trace of geologically young faults.
The site is not within an Earthquake Fault Zone, as defined by the Alquist-Priolo Earthquake
Fault Zoning Act and no known active or potentially active faults exist on the site. As previously
discussed the Oakland East Geologic Quadrangle map show a thrust fault crossing the site. This
fault has not been designated by the USGS as an active or potentially active fault. In a
seismically active area, the remote possibility exists for future faulting in areas where inactive
faults exist; however on a preliminary basis the scope of our services did not include a detailed
assessment of the faulting at the site. We conclude the risk of surface faulting and consequent
secondary ground failure is low.


8.2     Creek and Bridge Area

As discussed in section 7.1 the creek is the boundary between stiff colluvial/ alluvial soils to the
south and recent stream channel deposits to the north. The colluvium/alluvium consists primarily
of stiff clays which are relatively resistant to erosion and have moderate cohesive strength.
Existing creek slopes on the south side are generally moderate, typically on the order of 2:1
(horizontal to vertical) and exhibit few signs of instability. In addition, the soils are generally
susceptible to strength loss during seismic shaking. The stream channel deposits along the south
side of the creek contain layers of loose silty and clayey sand and gravels. These soils are
susceptible to erosion and strength loss due to seepage during and following significant rainfall
events, as well as during strong seismic shaking. There are numerous historic slope failures on
the north side of the creek bank resulting in near vertical slopes in several areas. These failures
are located in areas of impinging flow associated with the local meandering of the creek.


                                                  10
If unmitigated the creek banks, particularly the north bank, will continue to erode and experience
localized slope failures. Generally the creek bed is about 10 feet below the level of Thornhill
Drive and setback 40 to 50 feet from the edge of roadway. However, in the area located about
100 feet downstream of the proposed new bridge and extending about 100 feet downstream, the
creek bed is as close as 25 feet from the roadway. Future erosion and creek bank instability could
eventually potentially affect the roadway in this area. In addition, there are underground utilities
between the road edge and the creek bank that could be affected by future instability. There are
other localized areas of very steep creek banks including the area below the new bridge. While
slope failures in these areas are unlikely to affect the roadway or utilities, creek bank regression
may deposit sediment into the creek and undermine bridge foundations and abutment walls if
they are not properly designed.


At a minimum the effects of creek bank instability should be taken into account in the design of
the bridge foundations and abutment walls. Specifically the abutment walls should extend below
an imaginary line projected upward from the creek bottom at an inclination of 2.5:1. In addition
the bridge should be supported on drilled pier foundations that derive their vertical and lateral
support below the potentially unstable soils.


Two alternative approaches could be adopted with regard to the areas of potential creek bank
instability. A proactive approach would be to realign the creek in the area where it could impinge
on the roadway in the future. This could be accomplished in an environmentally sensitive manor
using bioengineering approaches currently being considered by Wolfe Mason Associates. LMG
should continue to work with Wolfe Mason Associates to provide specific geotechnical analyses
and recommendations for the selected creek stabilization scheme.


Another approach would involve adaptive management of localized problem areas as they occur.
While this approach may have the lowest initial cost it may lead to expensive emergency repairs
of greater cost than proactive measures that could be implemented as part of the project
improvements.




                                                  11
The stream channel deposits contain layers of loose silty sands that are potentially susceptible to
liquefaction during a significant earthquake. Creek bank slope failures during a major earthquake
are likely particularly, particularly if an earthquake occurs during the wet winter months.


8.3     Sanctuary Building

8.3.1   Foundations

The sanctuary building is located in an area of varying soil conditions. Bedrock will be exposed
along the base of the hillside to the southwest. Fill underlain by relatively thick deposits of
alluvial/colluvial soils likely exist beneath other portions of the proposed building pad. The
structure could experience unacceptable foundation settlement if it is supported on these
dissimilar soils conditions. In additio n, the clayey soils and claystone bedrock are moderately
expansive and will required mitigation to isolate the building and slabs-on-grade from the
detrimental effects of soils shrinkage and swelling.


There are at least two acceptable foundation alternatives for the structure. The structure could be
supported on conventional spread footing foundations that are underlain by at least 2 feet of
properly compacted select fill. In this case extensive earthwork would be required to excavate
the existing fill and the native soil and rock extending to a depth of at least 2 feet below the
proposed footings and replacing it with properly compacted select fill.


Alternatively the building could be supported on drilled pier foundations with only minor
grading to prepare the surface soils and placement of at least 12-inches of select fill beneath
slabs-on- grade. In this case site grading would be limited to excavating the pad to grade,
scarifying, and compacting the upper 12 inches of below the select fill subgrade level and
placing the select fill.


8.3.2   Hillside Stability and Site Retaining Wall

The hillside southwest of the proposed sanctuary building is located to the toe of a large regional
landslide deposit. The hillside has experienced localized slope failures in the past and there are
indications of ongoing downslope creep, as evidenced by the leaning trees and hummocky



                                                  12
ground surface in the area. In addition there are numerous springs and seeps that exist near the
toe of the slope during the wet winter months.


While our investigation did not include a comprehensive evaluation of slope stability and
potential mitigation measures for the entire hillside, we did drill one test boring (Boring 7) on the
hillside to evaluate subsurface conditions above the proposed sanctuary. Based on the results of
the test boring and review of historical information and aerial photographs, we have developed
the following preliminary consultations regarding hillside stability. In addition, we have
developed recommendation to minimize the effects of hillside instability on the proposed
sanctuary by the construction of a site retaining wall along the base of the hillside. However,
additional investigation and detailed geotechnical engineering would be required to conduct a
comprehens ive evaluation of hillside stability and potential mitigation measures, if desired.


Test boring 7 encountered about 5 feet of colluvial soil overlying weak bedrock. At a depth of
about 9.5 feet a well defined landslide plane was encountered. Groundwater was present under
excess hydrostatic pressure along the side plane. Relatively intact and moderately strong bedrock
was encountered below the slide plane. In addition there are several overgrown and subdued
landslide scarps on the hillside where previous la ndslides have occurred. Based on these
conditions, it appears that the landsliding may be limited to the upper 10 feet or so of soil/rock
on this portion of the hillside. The historic landslides appear to be related to previous site grading
associated with cutting at the toe of the slopes to install the parking lots and roadway at the site.


Installation of a site retaining wall along the base of the hillside will mitigate the risk of shallow
landslide movements affecting the proposed sanctuary. In addition the added subsurface drainage
and support at the toe of the slope will have a beneficial effect on slope stability. However, a
landslide risk will remain above the proposed improvements. In particular there is a risk of future
shallow slope movement that could destabilize the existing trees on the slope causing them to
topple. In addition, surficial mudflow could occur during period of significant rainfall. As a
result, a qualified arborist should evaluate the health of the trees and potential risks they pose. It
may be necessary to remove the hazardous trees and re-landscape the hillside with appropriate
plant materials to reduce erosion potential. In addition the retaining wall behind the new


                                                  13
sanctuary should be constructed with freeboard to provide an area to catch mud and debris in the
event of an upslope mudflow.


8.4     Parking Grove and Fire Truck Turnaround

The proposed parking grove and fire truck turnaround area is underlain by clayey native soils
and fill which have a low permeability and are judged to have a low resistance, "R" value for
pavement design. As a result, the pavement subgrade soils are not suitable for the infiltration of
surface storm water. In addition, the soils will not support heavy wheel loads from fire trucks
without properly engineered pavement sections. From a practical standpoint we recommend that
conventional asphalt concrete pavement sections be used in areas of fire truck access or heavy
vehicle use.


Permeable pavements may have a hydrologic benefit by acting to detain peak runoff from the
pavements during significant rainfall events and in promoting the growth of trees in the parking
areas. Permeable pavements may be appropriate in areas designated for passenger vehicle
parking. There are a number of alternative designs and produces available for this purpose. LMG
should review paving plans and provide additional recommendations.


9.0     RECOMMENDATIONS

Our recommendations regarding site preparation fill placement, foundation and seismic design,
and other geotechnical aspects of this project are presented in this section.


9.1     Site Grading

9.1.1   Site Preparation and Fill Placement

In areas to receive improvements (including buildings, pavements and exterior concrete slabs),
site preparation should include removal of all existing pavements, and underground utilities.
Underground utilities should be removed to the property line or service connections and properly
capped or plugged with concrete. Where existing utility lines will not interfere with the
proposed construction, they may be abandoned in-place provided the lines are filled with lean



                                                 14
concrete or cement grout to the property line. Voids resulting from demolition activities should
be properly backfilled with engineered fill as described later in this section.


Where fill is to be placed or where new pavements or exterior slabs will be constructed, the
existing fill exposed at the subgrade level, should be scarified to a depth of at least 12- inches,
moisture-conditioned to about optimum moisture content, and compacted to at least 90 percent
relative compaction. 8 The soil subgrade should be kept moist until it is covered by fill.        Onsite
or import fill, to be used as general site fill, should be moisture-conditioned to about optimum
moisture content, placed in lifts not exceeding eight inches in loose thickness, and compacted to
at least 90 percent relative compaction. Select fill should consist of soil that is free of organic
matter, contains no rocks or lumps larger than three inches in greatest dimension, have a liquid
limit less than 40 and plasticity index less than 12, and be approved by the geotechnical engineer.
All fill placed at the site should be free of organic matter and contain no rocks or lumps larger
than three inches in greatest dimension.


9.1.2   Placement of Select Fill

If the spread footing foundation alternative is used for the new sanctuary, we recommend the
proposed building area be excavated to allow placement of at least 24- inches of select fill
beneath the building foundations or to remove the existing fill to its full depth, whichever is
deeper. The over-excavation and select fill should extend at least three feet horizontally beyond
the building perimeter. If drilled pier foundations are used, the building pad should be excavated
to accommodate at layer of select fill at least 12- inches thick below slabs-on-grade. The soil
subgrade at the base of the excavation should be scarified to a depth of at least eight inches,
moisture-conditioned to at least three percent above optimum moisture content, and compacted
to between 90 and 93 percent relative compaction.




8
    Relative compaction refers to the in-place dry density of soil expressed as a percentage of the
    maximum dry density of the same material, as determined by the ASTM D1557-91 laboratory
    compaction procedure.


                                                    15
9.1.3   Utility Trench Backfill

Excavations for utility trenches can be readily made with a backhoe. All trenches should
conform to the current CAL-OSHA requirements.


Backfill for utility trenc hes and other excavations is also considered fill, and should be placed
and compacted according to the recommendations previously presented. If imported clean sand
or gravel (defined as soil with less than 10 percent fines) is used as backfill, it should be
compacted to at least 95 percent relative compaction. Jetting of trench backfill should not be
permitted. Special care should be taken when backfilling utility trenches in pavement areas.
Poor compaction may cause excessive settlements, resulting in damage to the pavement section.


Where utility trenches enter the building pads and pavement areas, an impermeable plug
consisting of lean concrete, at least five feet in length, should be installed where the trenches
enter the building footprints. Furthermore, where sand- or gravel-backfilled trenches cross
planter areas and pass below asphalt or concrete pavements, a similar plug should be placed at
the edge of the pavement. The purpose of these recommendations is to reduce the potential for
water to become trapped in trenches beneath the buildings or pavements. This trapped water can
cause heaving of soils beneath slabs and softening of subgrade soil beneath pavements.


9.2     New Sanctuary Foundation Support

9.2.1   Spread Footings

The proposed sanctuary buildings may be supported on isolated interior spread footings and
continuous perimeter footings bearing at least 24- inches of properly compacted select fill.
Continuous footings should be at least 18- inches wide and isolated spread footings should be at
least 24- inches wide. Footings should extend at least 18- inches below the lowest adjacent soil
subgrade (defined as the bottom of the gravel layer beneath the slabs-on-grade). The footings
may be designed using allowable bearing pressures of 3,500 pounds per square foot (psf) for
dead plus live loads and 4,500 psf for total loads, including wind or seismic forces. These values
include factors of safety of at least 2.0 and 1.5 for dead plus live loads and total loads,
respectively.


                                                  16
Lateral loads can be resisted by a combination of passive pressure acting on the vertical faces of
the footings and friction along the bases of the footings. Passive resistance may be calculated
using an equivalent fluid weight (triangular distribution) of 350 pounds per cubic foot (pcf). The
upper one-foot of soil should be ignored unless it is confined by slabs or pavement. Frictional
resistance should be computed using a base friction coefficient of 0.40. These values include a
factor of safety of about 1.5. Footings located adjacent to utility trenches should bear below an
imaginary 1.5:1 (horizontal to vertical) plane projected upward from the bottom edge of the
adjacent trench.


The footing excavations should be free of standing water, debris, and disturbed materials prior to
placing concrete. We should check foundation excavations prior to placement of reinforcing
steel to confirm suitable bearing material is present. We should recheck the condition of the
excavations just prior to concrete placement to confirm the excavations are sufficiently moist.


9.2.2   Drilled Piers

Alternatively the building can be supported on drilled piers. The advantage of using drilled piers
is that only minimal site grading will be required. Drilled piers should be designed to derive their
axial capacity from the skin friction in the soil and bedrock below a depth of 4- feet. The piers
should have a minimum diameter of 14-inches and extend at least 15-feet deep regardless of
load.


Piers installed in a group should be spaced at least three diameters on center. To compute the
axial capacity of drilled piers, we recommend using an allowable skin friction of 600 pounds per
square foot (psf) for dead and live loads. For temporary, compressive, total loads, including
wind and/or seismic load, the skin friction value can be increased by one third. For temporary
uplift loads, we recommend an allowable skin friction of 500 psf.


Drilled piers should be installed by a qualified contractor with demonstrated experience in this
type of foundation. While not encountered in the test borings potentially caving soils may
encountered during drilling and the pier holes will extend below groundwater. Therefore, the
drilling contractor would be prepared to use casing if caving soils are encountered. Concrete


                                                 17
placement should start upon completion of the drilling and clean out.        Concrete should be
placed from the bottom up in a single operation using a tremie and/or a pumper pipe. The tremie
pipe should be maintained at least 5- feet below the upper surface of the concrete during casting
of the piers.


If drilled piers are used we have assumed that resistance to lateral loads will be developed by
passive earth pressures acting on the sides of grade beams. Additional lateral resistance will be
available from the piers. If necessary we can provide additional lateral load analyses for the
piers.


9.3      Site Retaining Wall along Base of Hillside

We anticipate a cantilevered soldier pile and lagging wall may be used along the base of the
hillside southwest of the new sanctuary. The cantilevered soldier pile and lagging system should
be designed using active equivalent fluid weights acting behind the wall of 85 pcf to account for
the sloping backfill condition and potentially weak, unstable soils behind the wall. These
pressures should be assumed to act over the entire width of the lagging installed above the base
of the excavation; the pressures need only be assumed to act over one pier width below the
bottom of the excavation. Passive resistance in rock at the toe should be computed using an
equivalent fluid weight of 350 pcf. For soldier piles spaced greater than three times the soldier
pile diameter, the passive pressure should be assumed to act over three pile diameters.


The calculated embedment depth for the soldier piles should be increased by at least 20 percent
to obtain the design embedment depth. The lateral earth pressures for both cases were developed
assuming the groundwater level will be lowered to the bottom of the wall by permanent back
draina ge measures. The lateral pressure to be resisted by the lagging will depend on the size of
the soldier piles and the spacing between them.


Site retaining walls should be provided with backdrains. Drains should consist of a drainrock
layer at least 1- foot thick that extends to within 1 foot of the top of the backfill. Four- inch-
diameter, perforated, smooth-wall plastic pipe should be installed (with perforations down) along
the base of the on a 2- inch-thick layer of drainrock. The pipe should be sloped to drain by gravity


                                                   18
to a suitable discharge facility. Alternatively, one-half inch wide spaces can be provided between
the lagging boards to provide discharge points for the drainrock layer.


Drainrock should conform to current Caltrans specifications for Class 2 permeable material. A
more open-graded material, such as ¾- inch-crushed rock, could be used provided the rock is
surrounded by a geotextile filter fabric (Mirafi 140N or equivalent) to limit the migration of fine-
grained soils into the drainrock.


Backfill behind retaining walls and other fills should be compacted to at least 90 percent relative
compaction. Fill material should be placed in layers no thicker than 8 inches, and should be free
of organic debris and/or rocks greater than 6- inches in largest dimension.


Since the area above the site retaining walls may be subject to earth flows, at least two feet of
freeboard should be provided where the wall are adjacent to the new structure. A concrete lined
"V" Ditch should be provided above the wall. Access should be provided to allow for the
removal of accumulated mud and debris following rainfall or earth flow events.


9.4    Drainage

Positive surface drainage should be provided around the buildings to direct surface water away
from the foundations. To reduce the potential for water ponding adjacent to the buildings, we
recommend the ground surface within a horizontal distance of five feet from the buildings slope
down away from the buildings with a surface gradient of at least two percent in unpaved areas
and one percent in paved areas. In addition, roof downspouts should be discharged into
controlled drainage facilities to keep the water away from the foundations.


9.5    Slab-on-Grade Floors

The building slab-on- grade floors should be underlain by at least 12- inches of properly
compacted select fill as described in Section 9.1 If the previously compacted soil subgrade is
disturbed during foundation and utility excavation, the subgrade should be scarified, moisture-
conditioned, and re-rolled to provide a firm, unyielding surface prior to placement of the



                                                 19
capillary break material. To further reduce the potential for cracking of slab-on-grade floors, we
recommend the slab be reinforced with at least No. 4 bars spaced at 18-inches, each way.


To reduce water vapor transmission through the floor slab, we recommend installing a capillary
moisture break and a water vapor barrier beneath the floor. A capillary moisture break consists
of at least four inches of clean, free-draining gravel or crushed rock. The vapor barrier should
meet current industry standards. The vapor barrier should be covered with two inches of sand to
aid in curing the concrete and to protect the vapor barrier during slab construction. The particle
size of the gravel/crushed rock and sand should meet the gradation requirements presented in
Table 2.


                                       TABLE 2
                   Gradation Requirements for Capillary Moisture Break

                            Sieve Size          Percentage Passing Sieve
                                       Gravel or Crushed Rock
                              1 inch                     90 ­ 100
                              ¾ inch                     30 ­ 100
                              ½ inch                      5 ­ 25
                             3/8 inch                      0­6
                                               Sand
                               No. 4                        100
                             No. 200                       0­5



The sand overlying the barrier should be dry at the time concrete is placed. Excess water trapped
in the sand could eventually be transmitted as vapor through the slab. If rain is forecast prior to
pouring the slab, the sand should be covered with plastic sheeting to avoid wetting. If the sand
becomes wet, concrete should not be placed until the sand has been dried or replaced.




                                                 20
9.6     Exterior Concrete Flatwork

Exterior concrete flatwork should be underlain by at least 12- inches of properly compacted select
fill or Class 2 aggregate base. The soil or aggregate base should extend at least six inches
beyond the slab edges, and should be moisture-conditioned to near optimum moisture content
and compacted to at least 90 percent relative compaction.


9.7     Bridge Foundations

9.7.1   Drilled Piers

The new bridge should be supported on drilled pier foundations that derive their support from
skin friction in the bedrock that exists at an elevation of about 575 feet. End bearing should be
ignored since it will be difficult to properly clean out the pier bottoms to the extent that they can
rely on end bearing.


Piers installed in a group should be spaced at least three diameters on center. To compute the
axial capacity of drilled piers, we recommend using an allowable skin friction of 1,000 pounds
per square foot (psf) for dead and live loads. For temporary, compressive, total loads, including
wind and/or seismic load, the skin friction value can be increased by one third. The piers should
extend at least 10-feet in to rock regardless of load.


Longitudinal seismic loads will be resisted by passive pressures acting on the abutment walls.
Since seismic forces are short term transient loads a uniform ultimate passive resistance of 2500
pounds per square foot can be used to evaluate the available resistance provide by the abutments.
When considering allowable seismic loads a safety factor of at least 1.5 should be applied.


Transverse seismic forces will be resisted by the drilled piers supporting the abutment walls.
Piers will provide lateral resistance from passive pressure acting on the upper portion of the piers
and from their structural rigidity. Lateral resistance of piers will depend on the pier diameter,
pier head condition (restrained or unrestrained), allowable deflection of the pier top, and the
bending moment resistance of the piers. We have performed lateral load analyses for isolated, 2-
foot-diameter piers extending 10- feet into rock and for a deflection of 0.5- inch at the pier head.



                                                  21
The results of our analyses are presented in Table 3 Plots of deflection, shear and bending
moment versus depth are presented on Figures 4 and 5.


                                              TABLE 3
                                  Results of Lateral Load Analyses
                                  for 0.5-inch deflection at pier top

                                           Computed             Computed              Depth to
           Pier                          Lateral Load at        Maximum               Maximum
        Diameter           Pier Top          0.5-inch        Bending Moment            Bending
          (feet)           Condition     Deflection (kips)      (kip-feet)           Moment (feet)

             2             Restrained           55                  - 324                   0
             2            Unrestrained          25                   111                    7



The lateral resistances tabulated in Table 3 are for isolated piers and piers in a group with a pier
spacing of at least six pier diameters. If piers are installed in a group of two with a spacing of
three pier diameters, we recommend reducing the lateral capacities by 15 percent. However, the
design bending moments should not be reduced; they should be the same as those for single
piers. If larger pier groups are needed to support the building, we should provide the reduction
factors for these groups.


The lateral resistances tabulated in Table 3 are based on a deflection of 0.5 inch at the top of the
pier. If required, we can evaluate the lateral resistance of piers for other conditions, such as, a
different deflection criterion, a predetermined moment resistance, and partial restrained condition
at the pier top.


Drilled piers should be installed by a qualified contractor with demonstrated experience in this
type of foundation. Potentially caving sand will be encountered during drilling. Therefore,
casing and/or drilling fluid will be required. Casing should be able to extend to at least elevation
575-feet (bottom of loose sand). If casing is not extended to this elevation, water or drilling
slurry should be used, to stabilize holes. Concrete placement should start upon completion of the
drilling and clean out.     Concrete should be placed from the bottom up in a single operation


                                                  22
using a tremie and/or a pumper pipe. The tremie pipe should be maintained at least 5- feet below
the upper surface of the concrete during casting of the piers. As the concrete is placed, casing
used to stabilize the hole can be withdrawn. The bottom of the casing should be maintained at
least 3- feet below the surface of the concrete.

9.7.2   Bridge Abutment Retaining Walls

Abutment retaining walls should be designed to resist both lateral loads imposed by earth pressures
and any additional lateral loads caused by surcharging from construction equipment and vehicles
operating above the walls.

We recommend that the walls new abutment walls be designed to resist an equivalent fluid weight
of 55 pounds per cubic foot, assuming that they are relatively rigid. The equivalent fluid pressure
given above assumes fully drained conditions and level backfill. To account for traffic loads, the
walls should be designed for an additional uniform lateral pressure of 150 psf to be applied over
the entire height of the wall.


Abutment retaining walls should be supported on drilled pier foundations as described above.

Retaining walls should be provided with backdrains. Drains should consist of a drainrock layer at
least 1- foot thick that extends to within 1-foot of the top of the backfill. Four- inch-diameter,
perforated, smooth-wall plastic pipe should be installed (with perforations down) along the base
of the on a 2- inch-thick layer of drainrock. The pipe should be sloped to drain by gravity to a
suitable discharge facility. Alternatively, weep holes could be installed along the bottom of the
abutment wall to provide discharge points for the drainrock layer


Drainrock should conform to current Caltrans specifications for Class 2 permeable material. A
more open-graded material, such as ¾- inch-crushed rock, could be used provided the rock is
surrounded by a geotextile filter fabric (Mirafi 140N or equivalent) to limit the migration of fine-
grained soils into the drainrock.




                                                   23
Backfill behind retaining walls and other fills should be compacted to at least 90 percent relative
compaction. Fill material should be placed in layers no thicker than 8-inches, and should be free
of organic debris and/or rocks greater than 6- inches in largest dimension.


9.8      Pavements

9.8.1    Asphalt Pavements

The State of California flexible pavement design method was used to develop the recommended
asphalt concrete pavement sections. We expect the final soil subgrade in asphalt-paved areas
will generally consist of silty clay. R- value tests were not performed for the site. On the basis of
our experience with this soil type, we selected an R-value of 5 for design. Traffic data are not
available for the proposed parking lots and driveways.


Therefore, we have assumed traffic indices (TIs) of 4.0 for parking lots and 5.0 for access lanes
and the fire truck turnaround. Recommended pavement sections for these traffic indices are
presented in Table 4.


                                                  TABLE 4
                                            Pavement Section Design

                                                                 Class 2 Aggregate Base
                                   Asphaltic Concrete
                        TI                                                R = 78
                                       (inches)                          (inches)
                        4.0                  2.5                                6
                        5.0                  4.0                                9

(Note: The minimum thickness of asphalt concrete and aggregate base is 2.5 and 6 inches, respectively.)

Pavement components should conform to the current Caltrans Standard Specifications. The
upper six inches of the soil subgrade in pavement areas should be moisture-conditioned to about
optimum and compacted to at least 95 percent relative compaction and rolled to provide a
smooth non-yielding surface. Aggrega te base should be compacted to at least 95 percent relative
compaction.




                                                           24
9.8.2   Concrete Pavements

Concrete pavement design is based on a maximum single-axle load of 20,000 pounds and a
maximum tandem axle of 32,000 pounds. The recommended rigid pavement section for these
axle loads is six inches of Portland cement concrete over six inches of Class 2 aggregate base.
The modulus of rupture of the concrete should be at least 500 psi at 28 days. Contraction joints
should be constructed at 15- foot spacing. Where the outer edge of a concrete pavement meets
asphalt pavement, the concrete slab should be thickened by 50 percent at a taper not to exceed a
slope of 1 in 10. Recommendations for subgrade preparation and aggregate base compaction for
concrete pavement are the same as those we have described for asphalt pavement.


9.8.3   Interlocking Concrete Pavers

We anticipate decorative precast concrete pavers may be used for this project in the entry and
parking areas. Where pavers will receive vehicular traffic, we recommend they consist of fully
dentated interlocking shapes and be at least 3.15- inches (80 millimeters) thick. Non- interlocking
shapes can be used in non-vehicle areas such as pedestrian paths. The pavers should be placed on
a 1- to 2-inch-thick sand- leveling course. The appropriate aggregate base thickness given above
in Table 4 for asphalt concrete pavements can also be used beneath the pavers and sand-leveling
course. The subgrade and aggregate base beneath the pavers should be compacted in accordance
with the recommendations previously provided for asphalt concrete pavements. The unit pavers
should be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. LMG should be
consulted the recommendations presented above conflict with the manufacturer's
recommendations.


9.8.4   Permeable Pavers

The design of permeable pavers is significantly different from standard interlocking pavers. A
permeable pavement system is intended to direct surface water through the paver system and into
an underlying permeable water storage and retention system. The storage and retention layer
generally consists of open-graded, free draining, angular crushed rock or stone. The permeability
and storage capacity of the soil subgrade determines how much water can infiltrate from the
storage layer in to the underlying subgrade.


                                                 25
For a TI of 4.0, we recommend the permeable pavers be underlain by at least 8-inches of crushed
rock or stone. The crushed rock or stone should meet the gradation requirements for ASTM
Standard C33 No. 57 crushed stone. The crushed stone should be placed in loose lifts not
exceeding 8- inches thick and mechanically compacted with a minimum 10-ton static roller. A 2-
to 3-inch thick leveling ("choker") courses should be placed over the crushed stone to provide
uniform support for the unit pavers. The choker course should consist of ASTM C33 No. 8 stone
and should also be mechanically compacted. Prior to the placement of the unit pavers, the upper
1-inch of the choker course should be raked to create a smooth, loose surface, to facilitate seating
of the unit pavers. As described above in Section 9.5.3, the pavers should be at least 3.15- inches
(80 millimeters) thick and be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.


After the pavers have been set, the No. 8 stone can be used to fill the gaps between the pavers. If
the No. 8 stone is too coarse to fill the gaps, ASTM C33 No. 89 sand can be used. Gradation
requirements for the No. 57 and No. 8 stone and sand are presented in Table 5.




                                                 26
                                             TABLE 5
                         Gradation for Permeable Paver Gravel Layer


                           Percentage Passing                                 Percentage Passing
      Sieve Size                                          Sieve Size
                                  Sieve                                               Sieve


                ASTM C33 No. 57                                     ASTM C33 No. 8


      1-1/2 inch                   100                     ½ inch                      100


        1 inch                  95 to 100                  3/8 inch                 85 to 100


        ½ inch                   25 to 60                   No. 4                    10 to 30


        No. 4                     0 to 10                   No. 8                    0 to 10


        No. 8                     0 to 5                   No. 16                     0 to 5




Prior to the placement of the crushed rock, the subgrade should be moisture conditioned to about
optimum moisture contend and compacted to at least 95 percent relative compaction. The
subgrade should be smooth and non-yielding prior to the placement of crushed rock.


The thickness of the permeable gravel base is presented above is based on the structural design
of the pavement section. The civil engineer or landscape architect should determine if this
thickness is adequate to meet the hydrologic requirements of the project.


Because the soil at the subgrade will consist of silty clay that has a low permeability, water
stored in the crushed rock will not infiltrate significantly into the subgrade following the design


                                                 27
storm. As a result, a subdrain system will be required within the permeable storage layer. The
subdrain should consist of at least 4-inch-diameter, Schedule 40 PVC perforated pipes spaced at
least 25- feet center to center. The perforations should be placed facing downward. The subdrain
pipes should be underlain by at least 2- inches of No. 57 stone, have a minimum slope of 0.5
percent and be covered with a prefabricated filter fabric sock to prevent fines from infiltration
into the perforated pipes. The subdrains should drain to the storm drain system through a series
of solid collection pipes.


Provisions should be made to capture or redirect excess water from storm larges than the design
event. This may include curb pass-throughs to facilitate surface drainage to swales, catch basins
or drop inlets.


9.8.5    Pavement Edge Treatment

To prevent irrigation water from entering the pavement section, vertical curbs adjacent to
landscaped areas should extend at least four inches into the underlying clay. Subdrains may be
required behind curbs downslope of heavily watered landscaped areas. We should review the
final plans to determine whether subdrains should be used to reduce the potential for irrigation
water to enter the pavement section.


9.9      Seismic Design

The nearest fault to the site is the Hayward Fault, approximately .07 km southwest of the site.
For seismic design in accordance with the 2001 California Building Code we recommend using
the following parameters:

      Seismic Zone Factor 4

      Soil Profile Type SD

Near Source Factors Na and Nv of 1.5 and 2.0, respectively.




                                                 28
10.0   ADDITIONAL GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES

Land Marine Geotechnics should consult with the design team during final design. Prior to
construction, we should review the project plans and specifications to check their conformance
with the intent of our recommendations. During construction, our field engineer should provide
on-site observation during site preparation; fill placement, and installation of building and bridge
foundations. These observations will allow us to compare the actual with the anticipated soil
conditions and to check that the contractor's work conforms with the geotechnical aspects of the
plans and specifications.


11.0   LIMITATIONS

The conclusions and recommendations presented in this report result from limited engineering
studies based on our interpretation of the geotechnical conditions existing at the time of the
investigation. Actual subsurface conditions may vary. If any variations or undesirable
conditions are encountered during construction, or if the proposed construction will differ from
that described in this report, Land Marine Geotechnics should be notified to make supplemental
recommendations, if necessary.




                                                 29
FIGURES
Depth (z)              DEFLECTION, yt -in                       MOMENT -kp-f                      SHEAR -kp                                                                       Depth (z)
from                                                                                                                                                                              from
Pile Top-ft    -1.00           0              +1.00   -200            0          +200   -50            0            +50            -lb/f3            C-kp/f2    k-lb/i3   e50 %   Pile Top-ft
     0                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                      110.6   31.2     0.00      25.5
                                                                                                                                                     Sand/Gravel




     5                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                      52.5    20.2     0.00      32.5
                                                                                                                                                     Sand/Gravel




     10                                                                                                                                                                           10




     15                                                                                                                                                                           15




     20                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                   yt=0 at 20.6-ft                                                                                    75.7    0.0      336.80 1956.7      0.04
                                   St=0 at 21.1-ft                                                                                                   Weak Rock




     25                                                                                                                                                                           25




          Tip:
     30                                                                                                                                                                           30
          Yt=0E+0      Head Yt=5.2E-1                        Head Moment=0.0                  Head Shear=25.0
                       Max. Yt=5.2E-1                        Max. Moment=111.7                Max. Shear=25.0         E -kp/i2=3000
                       Head St=4.44E-3                                                                                I'-in4=16512




                                                                                                                                                                                            Figure:
                                                                                                                Bridge Drilled Pier - Lateral
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                      Load Capacity
                                               Unrestrained Case                                                                                                                            Date:
                                                                                                                                                                                                May 2005
                                                                                                                St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                                                                                                                                            Job Number:
                                                                                                           1701 Gouldin Road, Oakland, California
                                                                                                                                                                                                110.001
Depth (z)               DEFLECTION, yt -in                       MOMENT -kp-f                        SHEAR -kp                                                                      Depth (z)
from                                                                                                                                                                                from
Pile Top-ft     -1.00           0              +1.00   -500            0           +500   -100            0         +100                -lb/f3          C-kp/f2   k-lb/i3   e50 %   Pile Top-ft
     0                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                       110.6     31.2     0.00      25.5
                                                                                                                                                        Sand/Gravel




     5                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                       52.5      20.2     0.00      32.5
                                                                                                                                                        Sand/Gravel




     10                                                                                                                                                                             10




     15                                                                                                                                                                             15




     20                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                       75.7      0.0      336.80 1956.7     0.04
                                                                                                                                                         Weak Rock
                                    yt=0 at 21.6-ft
                                    St=0 at 22.2-ft




     25                                                                                                                                                                             25




     30   Tip:                                                                                                                                                                      30
          Yt=0E+0       Head Yt=5.09E-1                       Head Moment=-324.2                 Head Shear=55.0
                        Max. Yt=5.09E-1                       Max. Moment=324.2                  Max. Shear=69.8       E -kp/i2=3000
                        Head St=0E+0                                                                                   I'-in4=16512




                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure:
                                                                                                              Bridge Drilled Pier - Lateral                                                   5
                                                                                                                    Load Capacity                                                     Date:
                                                 Restrained Case                                                                                                                         May 2005
                                                                                                             St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                                                                                                                                      Job Number:
                                                                                                        1701 Gouldin Road, Oakland, California
                                                                                                                                                                                         110.001
         APPENDIX A
FIELD INVESTIGATION
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                            Log of Boring 1
                                                                                                                                                                        PAGE 1 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                         Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                              Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                     Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                           Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                              Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                            Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                       Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                        Confining
                                                                                                                                        Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                               Moisture
                                                                                                                             Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                             Type of




                                                                                                                                                                               Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                      Fines
                                                                                                                               Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                             Elevation: 625 feet ±
                                                                3-inch thick concrete
                                                                9-inch thick base rock
   1
                                               SC               CLAYEY SAND WITH SANDSTONE ROCK
                                                                FRAGMENTS (SC)
               MC                20
                                                                brown, medium dense, moist, angular sandstone to 3"
   2
                                                                dia. (fill)

   3

               MC                26            CL               LEAN CLAY WITH SAND AND GRAVEL (CL)                           PP                    2,150                     19.1         99
   4                                                            dark brown, medium stiff to stiff, moist

   5

               MC                55                                                                                           PP                    2,250
   6


   7                                                            Groundwater level following drilling


   8                                                            Groundwater level during drilling


   9

               MC                25                                                                                           PP                    900
10
                                                                                                                              UC                    767                       22.1         105
11


12


13


14

               MC                12            SC               CLAYEY SAND (SC)
15                                                              dark yellowish brown, medium dense, wet, with gravel
                                                                subrounded to subangular
16


17


18


19                                                                                                                                                                    50%     80.9         108
                                                                Sieve Analysis, See Figure B-3
               MC                12
20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 26 feet.                                                           Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                         110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                            Figure:
                                                                                                                      A-1a
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                           Log of Boring 1
                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE 2 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                        Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                             Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                      Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                          Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                   Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                         Dry Density
                                                                                                                                                                            Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                          Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                       Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                     Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                       Confining
                                                                                                                                       Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                             Moisture
                                                                                                                            Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                            Type of




                                                                                                                                                                             Natural
                                                                         MATERIAL DESCRIPTION
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                    Fines
                                                                                                                              Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                      %
               MC                12            SC

21
                                                               SILTY CLAYSTONE
                                                               bluish gray, thin bedded, fractured, low hardness,
22                                                             friable, deep weathering


23


24

               MC                55
25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40
    Boring terminated at a depth of 26 feet.                                                          Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                        110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                           Figure:
                                                                                                                     A-1b
PROJECT:                                                     ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                   Oakland, California                            Log of Boring 2
                                                                                                                                                                         PAGE 1 OF 1
Boring location:                               See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                         Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                               Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                  3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                               Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                            Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                 LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                      Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                            Dry Density
                                                                            MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                               Content, %
                                  Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                             Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                         Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                         Confining
                                                                                                                                         Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                                Moisture
                                                                                                                              Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                              Type of




                                                                                                                                                                                Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                       Fines
                                                                                                                                Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                         %
                                                              Elevation: 624 feet ±
                                                                 2-inches concrete
                                                                 6-inches asphalt base rock
   1                                                             SILTY CLAYSTONE
               MC                 27                             olive brown, thin bedded, closely fractured, low to           PP                    >2250
                                                                 moderate hardness, weak to moderately strong, little
   2                                                             weathering

               MC                 74                             Liquid Limit = 36%                                            PP                    >2250
   3                                                             Plasticity Index = 19%
                                                                 See Figure B-1
   4

               MC                80/9"                                                                                         PP                    >2250
   5


   6

                                                                 color changes to dark olive gray
   7


   8


   9
                                 83/
               SPT               10"
10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 10 feet.                                                            Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                          110.001
    No groundwater encountered during drilling
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                             Figure:
                                                                                                                        A-2
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                             Log of Boring 3
                                                                                                                                                                        PAGE 1 OF 1
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                         Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                              Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                     Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                           Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                              Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                            Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                       Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                        Confining
                                                                                                                                        Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                               Moisture
                                                                                                                             Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                             Type of




                                                                                                                                                                               Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                      Fines
                                                                                                                               Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                             Elevation: 617 feet ±
                                                                6-inches asphalt concrete
                                               CL/              LEAN CLAY WITH SAND AND RICK FRAGMENTS
   1                                           GC               (CL/GC)
               MC                19
                                                                dark yellowish brown, medium stiff, moist (fill)              PP                    2,000                     20.3         104

   2
                                                                Permeability Test, See Figure B-2
               MC                16                                                                                           PP                    1,825
   3
                                               CL               LEAN CLAY WITH SAND AND GRAVEL (CL)
                                                                brown and very dark gray, medium stiff, moist (fill)
   4

               MC                21                                                                                                                 >2250
   5


   6


   7

                                                                SILTY CLAYSTONE WITH INTERBEDDED FINE
   8                                                            GRAINED SANDSTONE
                                                                olive brown, thin bedded, closely fractured,
                                                                moderately hard, weak to moderately strong,
   9                                                            moderately weathered, some alteration to clay along
                                                                fractures
               MC                79                             Groundwater level following drilling                          PP                    >2250
10


11


12


13


14

               MC                63                                                                                           PP                    >2250
15                                                              Groundwater level during drilling


16


17


18


19


20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 15.5 feet.                                                          Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                          110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                             Figure:
                                                                                                                       A-3
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                             Log of Boring 4
                                                                                                                                                                        PAGE 1 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                          Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                               Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                            Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                     Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                           Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                              Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                            Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                         Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                       Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                         Confining
                                                                                                                                         Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                               Moisture
                                                                                                                              Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                              Type of




                                                                                                                                                                               Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                      Fines
                                                                                                                                Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                        %
                                                             Elevation: 599 feet ±
                                               CH               SANDY FAT CLAY (CH)
                                                                very dark grayish brown, soft to medium stiff, moist
               MC                4                                                                                             PP                    600
   1


   2

               MC                14            GC               CLAYEY GRAVEL (GC)                                                                                            19.1         106
   3                                                            very dark grayish brown. medium dense, moist, gravel
                                                                subrounded to subangular
   4

               MC                11
   5                                           SC/              CLAYEY SAND (SC/SM) with some gravel
                                               SM               brown, loose, moist

   6


   7                                                            Groundwater level following drilling


   8


   9                                                            Groundwater level during drilling

               MC                15                                                                                                                                   49%
10
                                                                Sieve Analysis, See Figure B-3

11


12
                                               SC               CLAYEY SAND (SC) with gravel
                                                                brown, medium dense, wet
13


14

               MC                20
15


16


17                                                              becomes loose


18


19
               MC                6                              Sieve Analysis, See Figure B-4
20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 25 feet.                                                            Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                          110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                             Figure:
                                                                                                                       A-4a
PROJECT:                                                     ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                   Oakland, California                           Log of Boring 4
                                                                                                                                                                       PAGE 2 OF 2
Boring location:                               See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                        Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                              Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                  3/23/05                       Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                               Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                 LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                    Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                          Dry Density
                                                                                                                                                                             Content, %
                                  Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                           Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                      Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                        Confining
                                                                                                                                        Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                              Moisture
                                                                                                                             Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                             Type of




                                                                                                                                                                              Natural
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                     Fines
                                                                                                                               Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                       %
               MC                 6             SC              CLAYEY SAND (SC) with gravel
                                                                brown, medium dense, wet
21

               SPT                4                                                                                                                                  35%
22

                                                                SILTY SANDSTONE
23                                                              yellowish brown, thin bedded, closely fractured, hard,
                                                                moderately strong, little weathering
24
               SPT               50/2"
                                                                Auger Refusal at 25 feet
25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40
    Boring terminated at a depth of 25 feet.                                                           Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                         110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                            Figure:
                                                                                                                      A-4b
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                              Log of Boring 5
                                                                                                                                                                         PAGE 1 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                           Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                                Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                            Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                            LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                      Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                            Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                               Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                             Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                          Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                          Confining
                                                                                                                                          Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                                Moisture
                                                                                                                               Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                               Type of




                                                                                                                                                                                Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                       Fines
                                                                                                                                 Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                         %
                                                             Elevation: 601 feet ±
                                               CL               SANDY LEAN CLAY WITH GRAVEL (CL)
                                                                yellowish brown, soft to medium stiff, moist,
               MC                7
                                                                sandstone rock fragments to 3-inch dia.
   1


   2

               MC                15                                                                                             PP                    375
   3


   4

               MC                16                                                                                             PP                    650
   5
                                               CL               SANDY LEAN CLAY (CL)
                                                                dark yellowish brown, medium stiff, moist
   6

                                               SC               CLAYEY SAND (SC) with gravel
   7                                                            yellowish brown, medium dense to dense, wet
                                                                Groundwater level following drilling
                                                                Groundwater level during drilling
   8


   9

               MC                22                                                                                                                                    42%     25.4         93
10                                                              Sieve Analysis, See Figure B-4


11


12


13


14
                                   CL/                          CLAYEY SILT WITH SAND
                                                                bluish gray, soft, wet, sand very fine grained
               SPT               5 ML
15


16


17

                                               CL               SANDY LEAN CLAY WITH ROCK FRAGMENTS (CL)
18                                                              dark bluish gray, medium stiff, wet

19
               MC                9                                                                                              PP                    500                      27.4         98
20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 24.5 feet.                                                           Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                           110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                              Figure:
                                                                                                                        A-5a
PROJECT:                                                     ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                   Oakland, California                           Log of Boring 5
                                                                                                                                                                       PAGE 2 OF 2
Boring location:                               See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                        Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                              Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                  3/23/05                      Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                               Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                           LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                 LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                    Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                          Dry Density
                                                                                                                                                                             Content, %
                                  Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                           Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                      Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                        Confining
                                                                                                                                        Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                              Moisture
                                                                                                                             Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                             Type of




                                                                                                                                                                              Natural
                                                                          MATERIAL DESCRIPTION
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                     Fines
                                                                                                                               Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                       %
               MC                 9             CL              SANDY LEAN CLAY WITH ROCK FRAGMENTS (CL)                      PP                    500                      27.4         98
                                                                dark bluish gray, medium stiff, wet
21
                                                                SILTY CLAYSTONE
                                                                bluish gray and light yellowish brown, thin bedded,
22                                                              closely fractured, low hardness, weak, moderately
                                                                weathered

23


24
               SPT               52/6"

25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40
    Boring terminated at a depth of 24.5 feet.                                                         Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                         110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                            Figure:
                                                                                                                      A-5b
PROJECT:                                                     ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                   Oakland, California                             Log of Boring 6
                                                                                                                                                                          PAGE 1 OF 1
Boring location:                               See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                          Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                                Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                  3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                               Minute Man
Hammer weight/drop: 70lbs./30-inches                                             Hammer type: Hand Held                                   LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                 LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                       Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                             Dry Density
                                                                            MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                Content, %
                                  Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                              Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                          Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                         Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                          Confining
                                                                                                                                          Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                                 Moisture
                                                                                                                               Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                               Type of




                                                                                                                                                                                 Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                        Fines
                                                                                                                                 Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                          %
                                                              Elevation: 647 feet ±
                                                CL               LEAN CLAY (CL)
                                                                 very dark grayish brown, medium stiff, moist, with
               MC                 21
                                                                 angular sandstone rock fragments to 4-inch dia. and            PP                    1,750
   1                                            CL
                                                                 roots
                                                                 LEAN CLAY (CL)
   2                                                             mottled brownish yellow and light gray, medium stiff,
               SPT                19                             moist

   3

               MC                 60                                                                                            PP                    2,200
   4


   5
               SPT                                               CLAYEY SILTSTONE
                                                                 olive, thin bedded, closely fractured, low hardness,
   6                                                             moderately strong, little weathering
                                                                 Groundwater level following drilling

   7


   8


   9                                                             Groundwater level during drilling

                                                                 sheared wet rock, possible slide plane at 9.5 feet
10
               SPT               55/6"

11
                                                                 Clayey siltstone continued
12


13


14


15
               MC                90/8"

16

                                                                 Auger Refusal at 17 feet
17


18


19


20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 17 feet.                                                             Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                           110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                              Figure:
                                                                                                                         A-6
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                              Log of Boring 7
                                                                                                                                                                          PAGE 1 OF 1
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                           Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                                Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Truck Mounted Mobile B-24
Hammer weight/drop: 140lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Cathead and Rope                             LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                       Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                             Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                              Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                          Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                         Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                          Confining
                                                                                                                                          Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                                 Moisture
                                                                                                                               Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                               Type of




                                                                                                                                                                                 Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                        Fines
                                                                                                                                 Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                          %
                                                             Elevation: 605.5 feet ±
                                               CL/              LEAN TO FAT CLAY (CL/CH)
                                               CH               dark grayish brown, medium stiff, moist, with sand
               MC                18
                                                                and rock fragments                                              PP                    800
   1


   2
                                               CL               LEAN CLAY (CL)
               MC                30                             dark yellowish brown, medium stiff to stiff, moist              PP                    1,350
   3
                                                                Liquid Limit = 43%
                                                                Plasticity Index = 22%
   4                                                            See Figure B-1
               MC                30                                                                                             PP                    1,375
   5


   6                                                            Groundwater level following drilling


   7
                                                                Groundwater level during drilling
   8


   9

               MC                23                                                                                             PP                    875                       22.4         104
10                                             SC               CLAYEY SAND (SC) with gravel
                                                                dark yellowish brown, medium dense to dense, wet,
                                                                gravel subangular to subrounded to 1-inch dia.
11


12


13


14
                                               CL               LEAN CLAY WITH GRAVEL (CL)
                                                                mottled yellowish brown, medium stiff, wet
               SPT               51                                                                                             PP                    1,250
15


16


17


18


19


20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 15.5 feet.                                                           Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                            110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                              Figure:
                                                                                                                         A-7
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                              Log of Boring 8
                                                                                                                                                                           PAGE 1 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                            Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                                 Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                        Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Minute Man
Hammer weight/drop: 70lbs./30-inches                                             Hammer type: Hand Held                                    LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                        Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                              Dry Density
                                                                           MATERIAL DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                 Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                               Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                           Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                          Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                           Confining
                                                                                                                                           Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                                  Moisture
                                                                                                                                Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                                Type of




                                                                                                                                                                                  Natural
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                         Fines
                                                                                                                                  Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                           %
                                                             Elevation: 602.5 feet ±
                                               CL               LEAN CLAY (CL)
                                                                dark grayish brown, medium stiff, moist, high silt and
               MC                32            CL               organic content                                                  PP                    1,350
   1
                                                                LEAN CLAY (CL)
                                                                very dark grayish brown, stiff, moist
   2
               MC                42                                                                                              PP                    1,125                     21.5         103

   3


   4

               MC                44                                                                                                                    2,250
   5
                                               SC               CLAYEY SAND (SC) with gravel
                                                                yellowish brown, medium dense, moist
   6                                                            Groundwater level following drilling
                                               CL               LEAN CLAY (CL)
   7                                                            dark yellowish brown, medium stiff to stiff


   8


   9

               MC                26                                                                                              PP                    750
10


11


12


13


14

               MC                32                                                                                              PP                    1,150
15


16


17

                                               CL               LEAN CLAY (CL)
18                                                              mottled bluish gray and olive, medium stiff, moist
                                                                (residual soil?)
19
               SPT               29                                                                                              PP                    1,125
20
    Boring terminated at a depth of 30.5 feet.                                                           Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                           110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                              Figure:
                                                                                                                         A-8a
PROJECT:                                                    ST. JOHNS EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                                                  Oakland, California                            Log of Boring 8
                                                                                                                                                                        PAGE 2 OF 2
Boring location:                              See Site Plan, Figure 2                                                         Logged by: John Wolfe
                                                                                                                              Drilled By: RAM (B. Miles)
Date started:                                 3/23/05                       Date finished: 3/23/05
Drilling method:                              Minute Man
Hammer weight/drop: 70lbs./30-inches                                           Hammer type: Hand Held                                   LABORATORY TEST DATA
DEPTH (feet)




               INFORMATION
                                                LITHOLOGY




                                                                                                                                                     Shear Strength




                                                                                                                                                                                           Dry Density
                                                                                                                                                                              Content, %
                                 Blows/Foot




                                                                                                                                                                                            Lbs/Cu Ft
                                                                                                                                        Lbs/Sq Ft


                                                                                                                                                       Lbs/Sq Ft
                                                                                                                                        Confining
                                                                                                                                        Pressure




                                                                                                                                                                               Moisture
                                                                                                                             Strength
               SAMPLE




                                                                                                                             Type of




                                                                                                                                                                               Natural
                                                                          MATERIAL DESCRIPTION
                        Sample




                                                                                                                                                                      Fines
                                                                                                                               Test
                TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                        %
               SPT               29                            LEAN CLAY (CL)                                                 PP                    1,125
                                                               mottled bluish gray and olive, medium stiff, moist
21                                                             (residual soil?)


22


23

                                                               color changes to dark greenish gray
24

               SPT               23                                                                                           PP                    1,250
25


26


27


28


29

               SPT               22                                                                                           PP                    1,450
30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40
    Boring terminated at a depth of 30.5 feet.                                                         Project No.:
    Boring backfilled with soil cuttings.                                                                         110.001
    Groundwater level as shown.
    Field blow counts are shown, no conversion factor used.                                            Figure:
                                                                                                                      A-8b
             APPENDIX B
LABORATORY TEST RESULTS
                                      1800


                                      1600


                                      1400
Unconfined compressive stress (psf)




                                      1200


                                      1000


                                       800


                                       600


                                       400


                                       200


                                         0
                                             0   2      4       6      8      10         12   14

                                                             Axial strain (%)

                                                 (see worksheet for sketch of failure)
                U.S. Standard Sieve Size (in.)                   U.S. Standard Sieve Numbers                     Hydrometer
                           3      2     3/4    3/8          4    8         16    30 40 50    100       200
                                                                                                                         Reference: ASTM D422
                          100


                          90


                          80


                          70
PERCENT FINER BY WEIGHT




                          60


                          50


                          40


                          30


                          20


                          10


                           0
                            100                     10                        1                      0.1                  0.01                0.001
                                                                          GRAIN SIZE (millimeters)



                                    Coarse          Fine        Coarse    Medium              Fine
      Cobble                                                                                                                  Silt or Clay
                                           Gravel                                 Sand




                                  Symbol                 Sample Source                                     Classification
                                    z                      B-1 at 19.5 feet               CLAYEY SAND (SC), light yellowish brown


                                                           B-4 at 9.5 feet                CLAYEY SAND (SC), brown




                                                                                           PARTICLE SIZE ANALYSIS
                                                                                              St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                                         1701 Gouldin Road, Oakland, California

                                                                 Date: May 2005           Project No.: 110.001                           Figure: B-3
                U.S. Standard Sieve Size (in.)                   U.S. Standard Sieve Numbers                     Hydrometer
                           3      2     3/4    3/8          4    8         16    30 40 50    100       200
                                                                                                                         Reference: ASTM D422
                          100


                          90


                          80


                          70
PERCENT FINER BY WEIGHT




                          60


                          50


                          40


                          30


                          20


                          10


                           0
                            100                     10                        1                      0.1                  0.01                0.001
                                                                          GRAIN SIZE (millimeters)



                                    Coarse          Fine        Coarse    Medium              Fine
      Cobble                                                                                                                  Silt or Clay
                                           Gravel                                 Sand




                                  Symbol                 Sample Source                                     Classification
                                    z                      B-4 at 20.5 feet               CLAYEY SAND (SC), brown


                                                           B-5 at 9.5 feet                CLAYEY SAND (SC), yellowish brown




                                                                                           PARTICLE SIZE ANALYSIS
                                                                                              St. John's Episcopal Church
                                                                                         1701 Gouldin Road, Oakland, California

                                                                 Date: May 2005           Project No.: 110.001                           Figure: B-4
DISTRIBUTION




   4 copies:   Mr. John Seals
               Davidson + Seals Architects
               5767 Broadway
               Oakland, California 94618


   1 copy:     Ms. Sara Sutton
               Wolfe Mason Associates
               1600 Shattuck Ave., Suite 222
               Berkeley, California 94709


   1 copy:     Ms. Karen Krolewski
               PGA Design, Inc.
               444 17th Street
               Oakland, California 94612


   1 copy:     Mr. Michael A. Forbes
               Fratessa, Forbes, Wong- Structural Engineers
               487 8th Street
               Oakland, California 94607


   1 copy:     Mr. Eric Haesloop
               Turnbull, Griffin & Haesloop Architects
               817 Bancroft Way
               Berkeley, California 94710
A   P P E N D I X                   I




TRAFFIC                        AND               CIRCULATION

      · Traffic Study ­ April 9, 2007
      · Supplemental Transportation and Parking Study ­ July 15, 2008
      · Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation and Parking Study ­
         September 23, 2008
      · St. John's Episcopal Church Calendar
      · Intersection Level of Service and Peak-Hour Warrants Calculation
         Sheets




........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................
                                                                     Dowling Associates, Inc.
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 250     510.839.1742
Oakland, CA 94612               510.839.0871 fax
www.dowlinginc.com              traffic@dowlinginc.com

                                                                                   Date:   April 9th, 2007




Memorandum
 To:                  Ed Manasi, City of Oakland
                      Ceasar Quitivis, City of Oakland

 CC:                  Jerry Moran, St Johns Episcopal Church, Oakland

 From:                Madhav Pai, Dowling Associates, Inc.
                      Alice Chen, Dowling Associates, Inc.

 Reference #:         P07-022

 Subject:             Traffic Study ­ Renovation at St Johns Episcopal Church, Oakland


Introduction

Dowling Associates has completed analysis of traffic impacts for the proposed renovation
work at the St Johns Episcopal Church in the City of Oakland located at 1707 Gouldin
Road. An operations analysis was done to determine if the renovation work impacted
traffic along Thornhill Drive. We also studied the existing site circulation and parking and
recommended changes to the proposed site circulation and parking after the renovation
work is completed. This memo summarizes the project description, study methodology and
the findings of the study.

Summary of Findings and Recommendations

    ·    During the Sunday peak hour Level of Service (LOS) B was observed on Thornhill
         Drive at Gouldin Road and Thornhill Drive at Alhambra Lane. The proposed
         renovation work would generate 2 additional weekday and 25 additional Sunday
         peak hour trips. Since the additional trips generated are very small, the project will
         not have any significant impacts to existing traffic operations that would require
         any mitigation.
    ·    Relocating the Church entrance to Thornhill Drive will not have any significant
         impacts to existing traffic operations that would require any mitigation.
    ·    The parking spaces eliminated by the construction of the new sanctuary on the
         south side of the property will be replaced by the parking along the driveway from
         the new entrance.
Existing Condition

The project site is located along Thornhill Drive between Gouldin Road and Alhambra
Lane. Thornhill Elementary School is south of the site on the other side of Alhambra Lane.

Based on information provided by the Church the current activities at the Church site are
listed below.

   ·   Church staff: The Church employs one full time staff person and eight part-time
       staff persons that enter and leave at different times.
   ·   Weekly Church services: The Church has three services on a typical Sunday
       morning. Tandem parking is a problem on normal Sundays especially for the last
       service. Some members regularly use the Thornhill Elementary School playground
       for parking. The Church services and their approximate attendances are as follows
           1. 7:45 AM ­ 30 persons
           2. 9:00 AM ­ 75 persons
           3. 10:45 AM ­ 100 persons
   ·   Special Church services: There are four special services a year including Christmas
       and Easter. The attendance numbers are approximately doubled for these events.
       The parking lot is full, with most cars parked in non-designated parking spaces.
       There is also an increased use of parking in the playground at the elementary
       school. For funerals the average attendance is approximately 150 persons.
   ·   Church Meetings: Fifteen regularly scheduled meetings occur at the Church in
       addition to the services. The majority of these occur in the evenings. Non-Church or
       community meetings average about twenty per week or 3 to 4 meetings per day.
   ·   Thornhill Elementary School: The Church site is used by the Thornhill Elementary
       School. Parents use the Gouldin Road ingress to drop-off or pick-up students. The
       faculty and staff use the site on school days for parking.

Traffic Operations: Two intersections likely to be affected by the project are Thornhill
Drive at Gouldin Road and Thornhill Drive at Alhambra Lane. Sunday is the peak activity
period at the Church. An intersection traffic count was conducted on Thornhill Drive at
Gouldin Road and Alhambra Lane on Sunday March 18th between 9:30 AM and 12:30 PM.
A total of 69 vehicles were observed exiting the site at Alhambra Lane during the 3 hour
period. At the peak one hour, 35 cars exited the site between 10:15 and 11:15 AM. The cars
enter and exit the site at a steady rate with no unusual spike. Both intersections operate at
Level of Service (LOS) B during the Sunday peak hour. The detailed three hour traffic
counts are in Appendix I.

Site Circulation: The entrance to the project site is at 1707 Gouldin Road. The entrance is
one-way. The vehicles exit the site on to Thornhill Drive from Alhambra Lane. The current
circulation patterns at the site are shown in Figure 1. Vehicles enter the site on Gouldin
Road. There is a steep downgrade at the entrance and the entering vehicles have limited
sight distance. Vehicles exit the site on Alhambra Lane. Vehicles turning left onto Thornhill
Drive, due to limited sight distance, need to pull out into the crosswalk.

Parking: The four parking areas on the site are marked in Figure 1. Area 1 has five
spaces, Area 2 has eleven spaces and Area 3 has fifteen spaces. Area 4 has parking along
the sanctuary structure and an open space extending all the way to the edge of the
property. Tandem parking occurs in the open space. Twelve to eighteen vehicles can fit in
this space depending upon how they are parked. There are a total of 56 designated spaces
on the site.

Some cars were observed to be parked in non-designated areas. At one point in time, 62
cars were observed on the Church site on Sunday March 18th by Dowling Associates staff.




                   Figure 1 ­ Existing site circulation and parking situation
Project Description
The proposed renovation work includes construction of a new 5,500 square foot sanctuary
structure. The new structure will be able to accommodate 15% more seats at the place of
worship. The current sanctuary structure doubles up as a place of worship and a Parish
Hall. With the new sanctuary in place, the old structure will serve as a social hall. As per
the Church officials there will be no simultaneous use of the social hall and the proposed
new sanctuary.

The project also involves
   - Relocating the entrance to the Church from Gouldin Road to Thornhill Drive
   - Changes to the existing parking situation. The new sanctuary will be built on the
      parking at the south end of the site.

Impact Analysis

Trip Generation: The existing maximum capacity of the Church is 230 seats (201-Seats,
24-Choir and 5 Clergy). After the renovation work is completed the seats will increase by a
maximum of 15%. The increased trip generation is estimated to be less than 25 trips. The
project trip generation calculations are based on equations published in the standard
reference Trip Generation (Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), 7th Edition, 2003).
ITE trip generation manual provides rates by seat for the Sunday peak hour only. For the
weekday AM and PM peak hours, trip generation rates provided are per 1000 square feet.
Tables 1 & 2 summarizes the estimated project trip generation.

                            Table 1 ­ Sunday Peak Hour Trip Generation




                   Table 2 ­ Weekday AM & PM Peak Hour Trip Generation




Source: Dowling Associates, based on Institute of Transportation Engineers, Trip Generation, 7th Edition, 2003.


Traffic Operations: Since the proposed project would generate less than 2 weekday and
25 Sunday peak hour trips, it is not expected to affect the existing LOS at the intersections
along Thornhill Drive. City of Oakland threshold to require an intersection LOS impact
analysis is 25 trips peak hours trips. As per City of Oakland's Table 1: Level of Analysis -
"Oakland TSD SOP Transportation Study Guidelines - Working Draft - March16-2006".

Proposed Site Circulation and Parking: The project involves relocating the entrance to
the Church from Gouldin Road to Thornhill Drive. Figure 2 shows the proposed change in
circulation patterns. A two-way driveway is proposed at the new entrance with 90 degree
parking spaces provided along the driveway. The new driveway will remove 5 spaces in
Area 3 on Figure 2. The new sanctuary will be built on the parking at the south end of the
site. The renovation work will remove 28 to 30 parking spaces which will be replaced by 30
new 90 degree parking spaces along the new driveway.




                   Figure 2 ­ Proposed site circulation and parking situation
Recommendations

Suggestions to improve existing site circulation

   ·   Vehicles turning left onto Thornhill Drive while exiting from Alhambra Lane need to
       pull out into the crosswalk due to limited sight distance. There is a slight downgrade
       right at the exit. Repaving and raising the pavement to be at the same level as
       Thornhill Drive will improve sight distance.

   ·   An advisory sign can be put up to prevent vehicles associated with a school pick-up
       or drop off to enter on Alhambra Lane. The sign could either say "School Trips ­
       Next Right Turn" or a no U-Turn sign during school hours on Alhambra Lane. A
       note along the same lines can be posted on the Thornhill Elementary School website
       or distributed to parents. U-turns on Alhambra Lane affect the one way circulation
       pattern on the site.


Appendix I ­ Traffic Counts on Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road and Thornhill Drive at
Alhambra Lane , 9:30 AM to 12:30 AM Sunday March 18th, 2007.
WILTEC                                                                               Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                          DOWLING ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                         OAKLAND TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                            SUNDAY, MARCH 18, 2007
PERIOD:                          9:30 AM TO 12:30 AM
INTERSECTION:          N/S       THORNHILL DRIVE
                       E/W       GOULDIN ROAD

15 MIN COUNTS
                   1        2          3      4      5       6         7       8       9      10        11        12
PERIOD          SBRT     SBTH       SBLT   WBRT   WBTH    WBLT      NBRT    NBTH    NBLT    EBRT      EBTH      EBLT     TOTAL
930-945            0       32          0      0      0      10         8      18       0       0         0         0        68
945-1000           0       32          0      1      0      10        18      24       0       0         0         0        85
1000-1015          0       38          0      3      0      16        15      22       0       0         0         0        94
1015-1030          0       38          1      1      0      12        13      18       0       0         0         0        83
1030-1045          0       52          0      0      0      16        28      31       0       0         0         0       127
1045-1100          0       53          0      0      0      22        33      31       0       0         0         0       139
1100-1115          0       46          2      1      0      15        12      36       0       0         0         0       112
1115-1130          0       52          1      1      0      12        11      39       0       0         0         0       116
1130-1145          0       43          0      0      0      10         9      29       0       0         0         0        91
1145-1200          0       38          1      0      0      12        13      33       0       0         0         0        97
1200-1215          0       40          0      1      0      14        10      36       0       0         0         0       101
1215-1230          0       49          0      0      0      13         9      33       0       0         0         0       104
HOUR TOTALS
                   1         2         3      4      5       6         7        8      9      10        11        12
TIME            SBRT     SBTH       SBLT   WBRT   WBTH    WBLT      NBRT    NBTH    NBLT    EBRT      EBTH      EBLT     TOTAL
930-1030           0       140         1      5      0      48        54       82      0       0         0         0       330
945-1045           0       160         1      5      0      54        74       95      0       0         0         0       389
1000-1100          0       181         1      4      0      66        89      102      0       0         0         0       443
1015-1115          0       189         3      2      0      65        86      116      0       0         0         0       461
1030-1130          0       203         3      2      0      65        84      137      0       0         0         0       494
1045-1145          0       194         3      2      0      59        65      135      0       0         0         0       458
1100-1200          0       179         4      2      0      49        45      137      0       0         0         0       416
1115-1215          0       173         2      2      0      48        43      137      0       0         0         0       405
1130-1230          0       170         1      1      0      49        41      131      0       0         0         0       393
                   0      1589        19     25      0     503       581     1072      0       0         0         0      3789



        A.M. PEAK HOUR
           1030-1130                                                            2

                                    0      203     3                            0

                                                                            65



                                    0

GOULDIN ROAD                        0                     0         137     84

                                    0

                                                              THORNHILL DRIVE
WILTEC                                                                               Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                          DOWLING ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                         OAKLAND TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                            SUNDAY, MARCH 18, 2007
PERIOD:                          9:30 AM TO 12:30 AM
INTERSECTION:          N/S       THORNHILL DRIVE
                       E/W       ALHAMBRA LANE

15 MIN COUNTS
                   1        2          3      4      5       6         7       8       9      10        11        12
PERIOD          SBRT     SBTH       SBLT   WBRT   WBTH    WBLT      NBRT    NBTH    NBLT    EBRT      EBTH      EBLT     TOTAL
930-945            0       58          0      0      0       0         0      42       0       0         0         0       100
945-1000           0       58          0      0      0       3         1      47       0       0         0         0       109
1000-1015          0       65          0      0      0       0         0      33       0       0         0         0        98
1015-1030          0       73          0      0      0       5         0      49       0       0         0         0       127
1030-1045          0       63          1      1      0       7         1      44       0       0         0         0       117
1045-1100          0       72          0      5      0      13         0      60       0       0         0         0       150
1100-1115          0       64          0      0      0       4         0      50       0       0         0         0       118
1115-1130          0       67          1      0      0       2         0      60       0       0         0         0       130
1130-1145          0       79          0      0      0       3         1      58       0       0         0         0       141
1145-1200          0       65          0      0      0       3         0      63       0       0         0         0       131
1200-1215          0       69          1      0      0       5         0      69       0       0         0         0       144
1215-1230          0       66          0      1      0      17         0      60       0       0         0         0       144
HOUR TOTALS
                   1         2         3      4      5       6         7        8      9      10        11        12
TIME            SBRT     SBTH       SBLT   WBRT   WBTH    WBLT      NBRT    NBTH    NBLT    EBRT      EBTH      EBLT     TOTAL
930-1030           0       254         0      0      0       8         1      171      0       0         0         0       434
945-1045           0       259         1      1      0      15         2      173      0       0         0         0       451
1000-1100          0       273         1      6      0      25         1      186      0       0         0         0       492
1015-1115          0       272         1      6      0      29         1      203      0       0         0         0       512
1030-1130          0       266         2      6      0      26         1      214      0       0         0         0       515
1045-1145          0       282         1      5      0      22         1      228      0       0         0         0       539
1100-1200          0       275         1      0      0      12         1      231      0       0         0         0       520
1115-1215          0       280         2      0      0      13         1      250      0       0         0         0       546
1130-1230          0       279         1      1      0      28         1      250      0       0         0         0       560
                   0      2440        10     25      0     178        10     1906      0       0         0         0      4569
                                              7             62

        A.M. PEAK HOUR
           1130-1230                                                            1

                                    0      279     1                            0

                                                                            28


                                    0

ALHAMBRA LANE                       0                     0         250         1

                                    0

                                                              THORNHILL DRIVE
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 250      510.839.1742
Oakland, CA 94612                510.839.0871 fax               Dowling Associates, Inc.
www.dowlinginc.com               traffic@dowlinginc.com

                                                                                Date:   July 15, 2008




Memorandum
To:                     Steve Noack, Design, Community, & Environment (DC&E)

From:                   Alice Chen and Kamala Parks, Dowling Associates, Inc.

Reference #:            P08054

Subject:
                        Supplemental Transportation and Parking Study for the Renovation at St
                        John's Episcopal Church, Oakland

Dowling Associates has prepared a focused transportation and parking study for the
Renovation at St. John's Episcopal Church. The analysis focuses on weekday traffic
conditions during morning drop-off and afternoon pick-up at Thornhill Elementary School.
This study supplements previous analysis of weekend traffic operations, site circulation,
and parking supply.

Existing Weekday Conditions
Under existing weekday conditions, the church facilities are used by the Thornhill
Elementary School for student drop-off and pick-up as well as for staff parking. Dowling
Associates conducted counts at the peak-hours of trip generation for Thornhill Elementary
School. The school has different drop-off and pick-up times for Kindergarten students as
compared to Grades 1 through 5 students. Kindergarten students arrive for an 8:20 AM
start, but the rest of the students arrive in time for the 8:40 AM class time. On regular
(non-minimum) school days, Kindergarten students are dismissed at 2:15 PM and Grades 1
through 5 students are dismissed at 3:00 PM. Timing of the traffic counts was determined
by the Grades 1 through 5 students' class schedules. The vehicle intersection turning
movement counts were done on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 from 8:15 to 8:45 AM and 2:45 to
3:15 PM at the following study intersections:
      1. Thornhill Drive & Gouldin Road
      2. Thornhill Drive & Alhambra Lane

Following the City of Oakland's orientation standards, roadways that run parallel to the
Oakland hills are considered east-west, while those that run perpendicular are north-south.
Thus, orientations of all roadways in or near the study area are as follows:

   North-South                            East-West
   Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road
   Alhambra Court                         Alhambra Lane




KS:2008Jul15_Memorandum_AdditionalAnalysis_AC.doc
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 2 of 9

Figure 1 shows these study locations. A summary of the counts is provided as an
attachment.
At these same times and locations, bicyclists passing through the study intersections were
counted. Pedestrian crossings were also counted at the two intersections, as well as at the
mid-block pedestrian crossing on Thornhill Drive between Gouldin Road and Alhambra
Lane.
                                 Figure 1: Study Locations




Weekday Traffic Operations
Vehicle levels of service (LOS) were calculated at the two existing study intersections using
the Traffix software, employing the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual methodology for
unsignalized intersections. LOS is a qualitative measure that calculates weighted average
delay and assigns a grade from LOS "A" to "F", with LOS "A" representing little or no delay
and LOS "F" representing excessive delay and congestion. At side-street stop-controlled
intersections, the LOS grade is assigned based on the intersection leg experiencing the
worst delay.
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 3 of 9

Typically, LOS is calculated using the volumes for the highest hour (sixty minutes). Since
counts were conducted for the 30 minutes to capture the school's peak activity periods, the
intersection turning movement volumes were doubled to create a full hour of vehicle
volumes for analysis. Pedestrian volumes were increased by 50% to create a full hour for
analysis. These estimations most likely provide higher volumes than would have been
counted in a full-hour, as the counts were conducted at the peak trip generation times for
the school.
The results of the LOS analysis are contained in Table 1, which display LOS and delay for
both the worst leg and overall intersection.
                            Table 1: Vehicle Intersection Levels of Service

                                                               AM                       PM
         Intersection                                   LOS       Delay          LOS       Delay
             1 Thornhill Drive &        Worst Leg         D         32.5           B         14.3
               Gouldin Road             Overall
                                        Intersection      A          4.0           A          1.4


             2 Thornhill Drive &        Worst Leg         C         17.0           B         12.2
               Alhambra Lane            Overall
                                        Intersection      A          1.5           A          1.2


             3 Thornhill Drive &        Worst Leg         C         17.1           B         12.4
               New St. John's           Overall
               driveway                 Intersection      A          1.7           A          1.3

             LOS at one- or two-way stop-controlled intersections is based on the leg with the worst
             weighted average delay, which is measured as seconds per vehicle. The LOS and delay for
             both the overall intersection and the intersection leg with the worst LOS are reported
             here.
             AM counts were done from 8:15 to 8:45 AM and PM counts were done from 2:45 to 3:15 PM
             on Tuesday, May 13, 2008. Vehicle volumes were doubled and pedestrian volumes were
             increased by 50% to conduct the analysis for the peak-hour.

             Calculated by Dowling Associates, Inc in June 2008 using TRAFFIX © version 7.9 Build
             R4

Results from the analysis found both existing intersections operated at LOS D or better,
which is within Oakland's LOS standard for intersections located outside of the downtown
area.
School Circulation and Access
Thornhill Elementary School uses about ten (10) on-street parking spaces in front of the
school on Thornhill Drive south of Alhambra Lane for drop-off and pick-up operations. A
few drivers were observed performing U-turns on Thornhill Drive at the intersections of
Gouldin Road and Alhambra Lane after dropping off or picking up students. Several
drivers parked their vehicles on the west side of Thornhill Drive between Alhambra Lane
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 4 of 9

and the mid-block pedestrian crossing to park all day or to escort students to and from
school. The majority of these drivers performed a 3-point turn in order to park on the
opposite side of the roadway. It should be noted that parking in this location is illegal.
Additionally, St. John's Episcopal Church allows the use its parking lot to the school for
pick-up and drop-off circulation, as well as overflow parking for faculty, staff, and
volunteers. Vehicles associated with the school enter the parking lot at Gouldin Road,
which is a one-way entrance. There is a steep downgrade at the entrance and the entering
vehicles have limited sight distance. They either park in the lot or enter Alhambra Lane
for drop-offs or pick-ups. The vehicles exit the site from Alhambra Lane, which is one-way
westbound from Alhambra Court to Thornhill Drive. Vehicles turning left onto Thornhill
Drive from Alhambra Lane need to pull out into the crosswalk due to limited sight distance.
The current circulation patterns at the site are shown in Figure 2.
                  Figure 2: Existing Site Circulation and Parking Areas




During the AM and PM 30-minute counts, no bicyclists were observed at the study
intersections. There were, however, sizeable pedestrian volumes observed, especially
during the morning. These 30-minute pedestrian volumes are summarized in Table 2.
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 5 of 9

                       Table 2: AM and PM Pedestrian Volumes (30-minute)
                                                         Intersection Leg
             Intersection                      Time North East    South Total
              1 Thornhill Drive &               AM          0         17          0       17
                Gouldin Road                    PM          0         11          0       11
              2 Thornhill Drive &               AM          6         50          0       56
                Alhambra Lane                   PM          4         20          2       26

                                                                 Crosswalk
             Location                          Time       In *      Out *      Total
             Mid-block crosswalk on             AM         19         10         29
             Thornhill Dr between Gouldin       PM          7          2         9
             Rd and Alhambra Ln
              AM counts were done from 8:15 to 8:45 AM and PM counts were done from
              2:45 to 3:15 PM on Tuesday, May 13, 2008.
              *In means that pedestrians crossed within the marked crosswalk; Out means
              that pedestrians crossed outside of the marked crosswalk.

Pedestrians use the mid-block crossing (located in Figure 1) because there is a public
staircase on the west side of Thornhill Drive, shown in Photo 2 below, which provides access
to homes in the hilly areas. Drivers who park on the west side of Thornhill Drive between
Alhambra Lane and the mid-block pedestrian crosswalk tend to cross where their cars are
parked. This is because accessing the mid-block crosswalk would require walking in the
travel lane, as there is no room on the shoulder for both parked vehicles and pedestrians,
shown in Photo 1 below. Additionally, most drivers who park here are accessing the
Thornhill Elementary School, which is located in the opposite direction of the crosswalk.
There were no observed pedestrian-vehicle conflicts at these intersections or at the mid-
block crosswalk.
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 6 of 9




Photo 1 - Parking on west side of Thornhill    Photo 2 ­ Mid-block pedestrian crossing and
Drive between Alhambra Lane and mid-block      public staircase
pedestrian crossing

Parking
St. John's Church currently has 225 seats and its parking lot contains approximately fifty-
six (56) designated stalls, but is able to accommodate more parked vehicles in undesignated
locations on-site. Figure 2 displays existing parking areas.
Project Impacts
The new driveway for the proposed project (Intersection 3) meets Thornhill Drive about 180
feet south of Gouldin Road and 40 feet north of the mid-block pedestrian crossing.
Weekday Traffic Operations
Volumes for proposed project driveway were derived from counts at the adjacent
intersections. It was assumed that all northbound right-turning vehicles and southbound
left-turning vehicles at Gouldin Road were associated with the school. Likewise, it was
assumed that all westbound left- and right-turning vehicles at Alhambra Lane were
associated with the school. For the impact analysis, these turning movement volumes were
shifted to the new driveway, which results in higher volumes at the new driveway since
some traffic could still use Alhambra Lane to exit the church parking lot. Southbound
through volumes at the new driveway were derived from volumes at Gouldin Road and
northbound through volumes at the new driveway were derived from volumes at Alhambra
Lane.
As shown in Table 1 above, the new driveway on Thornhill Drive would operate at
acceptable levels of service during the AM drop-off and PM pick-up associated with the
Thornhill Elementary School.
School Circulation and Access
With implementation of the proposed project, the school circulation pattern in the parking
lot of St. John's will be altered. All vehicles will enter at the new driveway off of Thornhill
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 7 of 9

Drive and may exit onto Thornhill Drive from either the driveway or Alhambra Lane. Sight
distances at the new driveway on Thornhill Drive will be better than existing sight
distances at the Thornhill Drive intersections with Alhambra Lane and Gouldin Road.
Thus, Figure 3 displays the proposed circulation changes.
The new driveway is located approximately 40 feet north of the existing mid-block
crosswalk. Given the use of this crosswalk, particularly during the morning drop-off, there
is the potential for increased conflict between vehicles entering and exiting the new
driveway and pedestrians crossing the street. Specifically, vehicles exiting the new
driveway and making left-turns would need to watch for pedestrians crossing Thornhill
Drive near or in the crosswalk as well as for gaps in traffic on Thornhill Drive. Appropriate
signage to "watch for pedestrians" and improving the visibility of the crosswalk as well as
advanced warning signs indicating the presence of the crosswalk as well as the new
driveway should be provided as a mitigation.
                  Figure 3: Proposed Site Circulation and Parking Areas
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Pg. 8 of 9

Parking
The Church is not located in a specialized zoning area, according to the City of Oakland's
General Plan map. Oakland's municipal code states that the off-street parking
requirement for a church is one (1) parking stall for each ten (10) seats. 1 Regular-sized
parking stalls are to be at least 18 feet long and 8.5 feet wide, whereas compact-sized
parking stalls are to be at least 16 feet long and 7.5 feet wide. 2 The proposed expansion of
St. John's Church will have 259 seats (a 15% increase), which means that 26 off-street
parking stalls are required. According to the St. John's Episcopal Church: Renovation
Phase 1 drawings dated November 1, 2006, there will be fifty-two (52) off-street parking
stalls, including two (2) handicap-accessible stalls. Thus, the Church is provides twice as
many parking stalls as is required by the City of Oakland's municipal codes.
A count conducted by Dowling Associates on Sunday, March 18, 2007 found that sixty-two
(62) cars were parked in Church's parking lot at its peak. A 15% increase in parked
vehicles would mean seventy-one (71) parked cars could be anticipated for its Sunday peak-
hour. The proposed 52 spaces on-site would not meet the existing or projected parking
demand and may result in on-street parking by Church attendees.
To mitigate this impact, the church should explore reciprocal relationship with the
Thornhill Elementary School to utilize school parking during the Sunday services to
accommodate the increased demand for parking with the expansion. It may also initiate
valet parking and / or tandem parking in the undesignated spaces.




1 City of Oakland, Municipal Code. Passed February 5, 2008. Code 17.116.070 Off-Street Parking ­
Civic Activities.
2 City of Oakland, Municipal Code. Passed February 5, 2008. Code 17.116.200 Parking space

dimensions.
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Attachment: Summary of Counts ­ Page 1 of 2



  Count Date: 13-May-08                                           Count Day: Tuesday
    Surveyor: Debbie Chan Yueh                                      Weather: Warm, sunny, clear
 Intersection: North/South Thornhill Drive
                  East/West Alhambra Lane

                                Vehicle                           Bike (Approach)           Pedestrian (Crossing Leg)
Time         SBT         SBL    WBL WBR NBR NBT                   SB    WB    NB             North    East    South
8:15-8:30 AM 143          0      3    15 0   90                    0     0     0               4        26       0
8:30-8:45 AM     135      0       11     16      0    109         0        0       0           2         24        0
         Total 278        0       14     31      0    199         0        0       0           6         50        0

2:45-3:00 PM     58       0        2      4      2     65         0        0       0           2         8         0
3:00-3:15 PM     89       0        9     17      0     84         0        0       0           2         12        2
         Total 147        0       11     21      2    149         0        0       0           4         20        2


Notes:          On Thornhill south of Alhambra, there were 10 coned spaces for student loading between 8 AM and 4
                2 school gates on Thornhill are open.
                In the AM, one car dropped off student then did a U-turn at the intersection of Thornhill and Alhambra to
                head SB on Thornhill. It was not included in the count.
                In the AM, there was a spike in vehicles heading WB between 8:42 to 8:45 when the count finished. The
                PM in WB direction was more consistent.
                In the AM, three NBT vehicles made U-turns on Thornhill north of Alhambra to park, then crossed
                midblock not in the crosswalk
                In the PM, the pickup areas are separated, with a sign stating "Rooms 1-6 back door, Rooms 7-14 front
                In the PM, one NBR made 3-point turn at intersection
                In the PM, one U-turn observed south of Alhambra on Thornhill
                Some drivers park outside of the loading zone and wait for students in PM
Mr. Noack
Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
July 15, 2008

Attachment: Summary of Counts ­ Page 2 of 2

  Count Date: 13-May-08                                       Count Day: Tuesday
    Surveyor: Kamala Parks                                      Weather: Warm, sunny, clear
 Intersection: North/South Thornhill Drive
                  East/West Gouldin Road
                                                       Intersection                                                   Midblock
                                Vehicle                        Bike (Approach)       Peds (Crossing Leg)                Peds
Time         SBT         SBL    WBL WBR NBR NBT                SB WB NB              North East South          In Xwalk Not in Xwalk
8:15-8:30 AM 113          14     30    0 19  73                 0     0    0           0      4      0             10         9
8:30-8:45 AM     107      12      26      0     31     87       0      0      0         0       13      0           9             1
         Total 220        26      56      0     50    160       0      0      0         0       17      0          19            10

2:45-3:00 PM     47       8       12      0     17     50       0      0      0         0       4       0           5             0
3:00-3:15 PM     72       2       12      0     18     77       0      0      0         0       7       0           2             2
         Total 119        10      24      0     35    127       0      0      0         0       11      0           7             2


Notes:          From 3:00 to 3:15, three vehicles counted as NBR made 3-point turns at the intersection to head southbound on Thornhill
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 250    510.839.1742
Oakland, CA 94612              510.839.0871 fax                 Dowling Associates, Inc.
www.dowlinginc.com             traffic@dowlinginc.com

                                                                       Date:    September 23, 2008




Memorandum
To:                     Steve Noack, Design, Community, & Environment (DC&E)

From:                   Alice Chen and Kamala Parks, Dowling Associates, Inc.

Reference #:            P08054 Billing Group 2

Subject:
                        Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation and Parking Study for the
                        Renovation at St John's Episcopal Church, Oakland

Dowling Associates has prepared this memorandum as an addendum to the transportation
and parking studies previously completed for the Proposed Project at St. John's Episcopal
Church. This memorandum addresses comments made by the City of Oakland to the
Administrative Draft Environmental Impact Report for the transportation section. The
focus of this addendum is to:
    · Analyze existing and project site access points,
    · Summarize existing Sunday usage
    · Analyze collisions in the study area; and
    · Conduct a speed study.

Following the City of Oakland's orientation standards, roadways that run parallel to the
Oakland hills are considered east-west, while those that run perpendicular are north-south.
Thus, orientations of all roadways in or near the study area are as follows:

   North-South                          East-West
   Thornhill Drive                      Gouldin Road
   Alhambra Court                       Alhambra Lane


Access Points Analysis
For this task, Dowling Associates evaluated intersection sight distances, the turning radii
for fire trucks at the Church's parking lot, and pedestrian access to the Church.

Intersection Sight Distances
Dowling Associates surveyed sight distances in the field at the following locations:
         1. St. John's Church driveway entrance at Gouldin Road
         2. St. John's Church driveway exit at Alhambra Lane
         3. Alhambra Lane at Thornhill Drive




KS:2008Sep24_Memorandum_AdditionalAnalysis.doc
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 2 of 9

          4. Mid-block crosswalk on Thornhill Drive between Alhambra Lane and Gouldin
               Road
          5. Proposed project driveway at Thornhill Drive, located 40 feet north of the
               mid-block crosswalk between Alhambra Lane and Gouldin Road
Analysis of sight distances was conducted using Caltrans' Highway Design Manual. 1
Location 1 ­ St. John's Church driveway entrance at Gouldin Road
The Church's access off of Gouldin Road is an entrance-only lane into the parking lot. The
driveway entrance is about 15 feet wide and is characterized by a curved, steep downhill
grade of 26%. There is no posted speed limit on the entrance. Sight distance from Gouldin
Road turning into the driveway is about 69 feet due to foliage and roadway curvature,
which means that sight distance standards for stopping is about 11 miles per hour.2 Photo
1 shows the sight distance from Gouldin Road onto the driveway entrance. Table 201.1 ­
extrapl 10 MPH
Location 2 ­ St. John's Church driveway exit at Alhambra Lane
Alhambra Lane dead-ends at the Church's driveway, which is an exit-only lane out of the
parking lot. Thus, vehicular movements are limited to right turns out of the driveway. The
driveway exit onto Alhambra Lane is characterized by a steep downhill grade of 22%.
There is no posted speed limit coming out of the driveway or on Alhambra Lane. Sight
distance from the driveway turning onto Alhambra Lane is about 53 feet due to foliage,
fencing, and roadway curvature, which means that sight distance standards for stopping is
about 8 miles per hour.3 Photo 2 shows the sight distance from the driveway exit onto
Alhambra Lane. 10 MPH
Location 3 ­ Alhambra Lane at Thornhill Drive
Alhambra Lane at Thornhill Drive is a T-intersection. Thus, vehicular movements are
limited to left and right turns from Alhambra Lane onto Thornhill Drive. The posted speed
limit on Thornhill Drive is 25 miles per hour and the Alhambra Lane approach is stop-
controlled. Sight distance was measured 17 feet from the edge of the northbound travel
lane on Thornhill Drive where there is a painted shoulder line with delineators. This
location meant that most vehicles would block the east leg crosswalk while waiting for a
gap in traffic on Thornhill Drive. Looking to the south, sight distance was measured as 145
feet due to a fixed refuse can and occupied on-street parking spaces. Looking to the north,
sight distance was measured as 77 feet, primarily due to foliage and the intersection off-set.

1 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 200 ­ Geometric
Design and Structure Standards, January 4, 2007 and Chapter 400 ­ Intersections At-Grade, July 1,
2008.
2 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 200 ­ Geometric

Design and Structure Standards, January 4, 2007, Table 201.1 ­ Sight Distance Standards for
stopping distance extrapolated from the 20 mile per hour design speed.
3 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 200 ­ Geometric

Design and Structure Standards, January 4, 2007, Table 201.1 ­ Sight Distance Standards for
stopping distance extrapolated from the 20 mile per hour design speed.
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 3 of 9

According to the Highway Design Manual, corner sight distance should be 275 feet in each
direction at this unsignalized intersection.4 Thus, the corner sight distance at this
intersection is sub-standard. Photos 3 and 4 show the sight distances from Alhambra Lane
onto Thornhill Drive.
Location 4 ­ Mid-block crosswalk on Thornhill Drive between Alhambra Lane and
Gouldin Road
The yellow mid-block crosswalk on Thornhill Drive between Alhambra Lane and Gouldin
Road provides access from public staircase on the western side to the roadway shoulder on
the eastern side of Thornhill Drive. There is a street light located about 25 feet north of the
crosswalk, but it does not appear to illuminate the crosswalk itself. Additionally, the
crosswalk is located under a canopy of trees, which serves to obscure pedestrians even in
the daytime. Vehicles are allowed to park on the eastern side of Thornhill Drive on
weekends and school holidays and after 4 PM on weekdays. Parking signage on the
western side of Thornhill Drive is somewhat confusing, but it appears that vehicles are not
allowed to park there. Nonetheless, parked vehicles were observed on the western side of
Thornhill Drive in close proximity to the mid-block crosswalk during all site visits.
Sight distances in the southbound and northbound directions are greater than 500 feet
when there are either no cars parked or pedestrians stand at the edge of the travel lane.
When cars are parked and pedestrians are standing in the parking lane, sight distance is
reduced to 50 feet. According to the Highway Design Manual, the stopping sight distance
should be at least 150 feet in each direction at the mid-block crosswalk.5 Thus, when cars
are parked, adequate sight distances of motorists stopping for pedestrians are compromised
and most likely sub-standard. Photos 5 and 6 show sight distances from the mid-block
crosswalk onto Thornhill Drive.
Location 5 ­ Proposed Project driveway at Thornhill Drive, located 40 feet north
of the mid-block crosswalk between Alhambra Lane and Gouldin Road
The Proposed Project driveway will be a T-intersection at Thornhill Drive. Thus, vehicle
movements will be restricted to left and right turns onto Thornhill Drive with the driveway
approach stop-controlled. Sight distances at the Proposed Project driveway will be similar
to results shown at the mid-block crosswalk of Location 4. If foliage and parking is removed
from the eastern side of the roadway, sight distances are greater than 500 feet. If cars are
parked on the eastern side of the roadway or if the foliage is not removed, sight distance
would be reduced to about 50 feet. According to the Highway Design Manual, corner sight
distance should be 275 feet in each direction at this unsignalized intersection.6 Thus, the
corner sight distance at this intersection would be sub-standard if foliage is not removed or

4 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 400 ­ Intersections
At-Grade, July 1, 2008, Table 405.1A ­ Corner Sight Distance (7.5 Second Criteria)
5 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 200 ­ Geometric

Design and Structure Standards, January 4, 2007, Table 201.1 ­ Sight Distance Standards.
6 Highway Design Manual. California Department of Transportation. Chapter 400 ­ Intersections

At-Grade, July 1, 2008, Table 405.1A ­ Corner Sight Distance (7.5 Second Criteria)
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 4 of 9

vehicles parked on the eastern side of the roadway. Photo 7 shows the sight distance from
the Proposed Project driveway if vehicles are parked on the eastern side of Thornhill Drive.




Photo 1 ­ Location 1: St. John's Church       Photo 2 ­ Location 2: St. John's Church
driveway entrance from Gouldin Road           driveway exit onto Alhambra Lane




Photo 3 ­ Location 3: Alhambra Lane looking   Photo 4 ­ Location 3: Alhambra Lane looking
southbound onto Thornhill Drive               northbound onto Thornhill Drive
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 5 of 9




Photo 5 ­ Location 4: Eastside of Thornhill   Photo 6 ­ Location 4: Westside of Thornhill
Drive at mid-block crosswalk looking          Drive at mid-block crosswalk looking
southbound onto Thornhill Drive               northbound onto Thornhill Drive




Photo 7 ­ Location 5: Eastside of Thornhill
Drive at Proposed Project driveway looking
southbound onto Thornhill Drive with parked
car


Pedestrian Access to Church

In the study area, there are partial sidewalks located on Thornhill Drive and Alhambra
Lane, but there are no pedestrian facilities located along the Church's driveways. The
steep grades and narrow widths of the existing driveway entrance off of Gouldin Road and
driveway exit onto Alhambra Lane create challenges for providing walkways that are
compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The Proposed Project would
provide ADA compliant sidewalks along one side of the driveway from Thornhill Drive to
the Church buildings and to the ADA parking spaces. Should existing driveway access
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 6 of 9

remain, further study would be required to determine if ADA compliant pedestrian access
could be provided at the northwestern section of the property off of Gouldin Road where the
Church's playground is located, as shown in Photo 8.




Photo 8 ­ Possible location for pedestrian access
to St. John's Church off of Gouldin Road if
existing driveway access to remain

Fire Truck Turning Radii
According to the City of Oakland's 2008 Fire Code, fire trucks need a minimum 20-foot wide
driveway for turning, and this width must be maintained for at least 25 feet in length in
hilly areas.7 With these standards, the existing entrance driveway to St. John's Church
from Gouldin Road does not meet the current minimum for driveway access, as it is only 15
feet wide. The Proposed Project driveway off of Thornhill Drive, however, would be built to
current fire truck access standards.


Existing Sunday Usage
Dowling Associates employed the traffic counting firm Wiltec to conduct a count on a
typical Sunday at St. John's Church, which was done on September 21, 2008. They
conducted an inventory of parking spaces, both on- and off-street, as well as collected
person attendance at the Church's main building entrance, and parking and vehicle
occupancies at each religious service. Religious services take place on a typical Sunday at
7:45, 9:00, and 10:45 AM. Additionally, the Church had "Education for All Ages" classes at
10:00 AM on the survey date, as is also typical. Parking occupancy surveys were conducted
on-street (as shown in Figure 1), in the Church parking lot, and in the Thornhill
Elementary School blacktop. Parking occupancy surveys were conducted at 7:00 AM, 8:00
AM, 9:15 AM and 11:00 AM. Vehicle occupancy surveys were conducted at the Church's

7Visit to the City of Oakland Fire Department, Fire Prevention Bureau on September 19, 2008, Page
527.9, Figures 8 and 9, "Y" and "L" Turnarounds respectively, of Oakland's 2008 Fire Code provided
by Oakland staff.
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 7 of 9

driveway entrance and person attendance counts were counted at the Church's building
entrance from 7:30-8:00 AM, 8:45-9:15 AM, 10:30-11:00 AM.
Average occupancies of vehicles entering St. John's parking lot from Gouldin Road was 1.6
persons per vehicle. The service with the highest number of attendees entering the
building was the 9:00 AM service with 83 persons, whereas the 7:45 AM and 10:00 AM
services had 21 and 41 attendee entrances, respectively.
Parking occupancies at on-street locations ranged from 38% at 7:00 AM to 56% at 11:15
AM, with most of the increase found on Thornhill Drive between Alhambra Lane and
Grisborne Avenue. It cannot be ascertained, however, whether the parking occupancy
increase on-street was attributed to Church patrons, non-Church activity, or a combination
thereof. However, if it were conservatively assumed that all increases in parking occupancy
on-street were attributable to Church patrons, than the maximum number of Church-
related vehicles parked on-street would be 13.
Parking occupancy percentages at the off-street locations were more difficult to ascertain.
Parking stalls at St. John's Church are generally unmarked and the blacktop at Thornhill
Elementary School is marked as a playground rather than a parking lot. However, earlier
studies of the parking lot of St. John's Church indicate that there are 56 designated stalls.8
We estimated vehicle parking capacity at Thornhill Elementary School's blacktop at 60
using aerial imagery and measurements. The 7:00 AM count showed only 3 vehicles parked
at St. John's Church and none parked at Thornhill Elementary School. The greatest
volume of parked vehicles at these parking lots was counted at 11:15 AM, with 59 vehicles
in the St. John's lot and 20 vehicles on the Thornhill Elementary school blacktop. Parking
occupancy percentages for St. John's, Thornhill Elementary, and both lots combined at
11:15 AM was 105%, 33%, and 68%, respectively.
It should be noted that the highest attended religious service (9:00 AM) does not correspond
to the highest parking occupancies surveyed (11:15 AM). This may be due, in part, to 9:00
AM religious service attendees remaining on-site to attend the "Education for All Ages"
classes at 10:00 AM.

As described above, the parking at St. John's lot is already over-capacity, but there is excess
capacity at the Thornhill Elementary School to handle the existing overflow. With the
proposed 15% increase in seats (34 seats) and the reduction in parking supply at the church
of 5 spaces, an additional 26 spaces would be required to meet the future demand.9 The
Thornhill Elementary School's blacktop can accommodate this increased demand. A more
formal shared parking agreement with Thornhill Elementary School would allow the school
to use the church parking during the school week and the church to use the school blacktop
during Sunday services. Other parking options, such as valet parking or tandem parking,
to increase the parking supply would not be necessary.

8 Dowling Associates Memorandum to DC&E, July 17, 2008. Supplemental Transportation and
Parking Study for the Renovation at St John's Episcopal Church, Oakland
9 The 34 seats would generate a demand for 21 parking spaces, assuming the average vehicle

occupancy of 1.6 passengers per vehicle.
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 8 of 9

     Figure 1: On-Street Parking Occupancy and Collision Analysis Study Area




                                                               St. John's
                                                                Church
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Pg. 9 of 9



Collision Analysis
The City of Oakland provided Dowling Associates with the most recent five-years (from
October 1, 2002 through September 30, 2007) of reported collisions in the study area, as
delineated in Figure 1. One collision was reported in the study area on Thornhill Drive
forty feet south of Gouldin Road in 2004. It occurred at 8:45 AM. It involved two vehicles,
was a sideswipe collision, and its primary collision factor was unsafe starting or backing.
Another collision was reported in close proximity to the study area on Gouldin Road three
hundred feet east of Alhambra Avenue in 2007. It occurred at 3:15 AM and involved one
vehicle colliding with a fixed object and its primary collision factor was also unsafe starting
and backing. There were no vehicles that involved pedestrians or bicyclists and there does
not appear to be an identifiable pattern of reported collisions in the study area.


Vehicle Speed Study
Dowling Associates employed the traffic counting firm Wiltec to conduct 24-hour tube-
machine counts for vehicle speeds on Thornhill Drive on a typical weekday. Tubes were
located for the vehicle approach on each side of the mid-block crosswalk located between
Alhambra Lane and Gouldin Road. The count was conducted on Tuesday, August 26, 2008,
which was the first week that Oakland Unified School District students were back at
school. Posted speed limits are 25 miles-per-hour along Thornhill Drive in the study area.
Table 1 displays a summary of the results from the speed survey.
      Table 1: 24-Hour Speed Summary on Thornhill Drive between Gouldin Road and
                                   Alhambra Lane
                                                                                Miles Per Hour
                             Percentile Speed       1 to 24             25 to 34           35 to 44           >= 45
Direction       Volume        50th    85th      Volume Percent Volume Percent Volume Percent Volume Percent
Northbound        3,878        29.1    35.1      817     21.1%       2,473      63.8%    578     14.9%   10       0.3%
Southbound        3,587        30.0    35.6      545     15.2%       2,446      68.2%    583     16.3%   13       0.4%
  24-hour machine tube counts conducted by Wiltec on Tuesday, August 26, 2008
  Dowling Associates, Inc.

Over a twenty-four hour period, it was found that the 85th percentile speed ranged from
35.1 to 35.6 miles per hour (in other words, 85% of the vehicles surveyed were traveling at
or under these speeds). About 79% of vehicles in the northbound direction and 85% in the
southbound direction were traveling at or above the posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour.
However, between the hours of 8:00 and 9:00 AM when children are arriving at school,
speeds averaged 22 miles per hour in the northbound direction and 25 miles per hour in the
southbound direction.
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices


W ILTEC                                                                  Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969   E-m ail: info@ wiltecusa.com
VEHICLE O CCUPANCY AND ATTENDANCE SURVEYS



CLIENT:                      DO W LING ASSO CIATES
PRO JECT:                    ST. JO HN'S EPISCO PAL SCHO O L CO UNTS
DATE:                        SUNDAY SEPTEM BER 21, 2008
PERIO D:                     7:30-8:00 AM, 8:45-9:15 AM AND 10:30-11:00 AM
LO CATIO N:   N/S            THO RNHILL DRIVE
              E/W            DRIVEW AY ENTRANCE TO THE CHURCH




                        NUM BER O F PEO PLE PER VEHICLE                                 ATTENDANCE AT THE CHURCH BUILDING ENTRANCE
TIM E:              1            2           3         4+          GRAND TOTAL                  IN                     O UT
730-745             8             5           0           0                  13                    17                             0
745-800             2             0           0           0                  2                     4                              0
VEHICLES            10            5           0           0                  15
PASSENG ERS         10           10           0           0                  20                    21                             0



                        NUM BER O F PEO PLE PER VEHICLE                                 ATTENDANCE AT THE CHURCH BUILDING ENTRANCE
TIM E:              1            2           3         4+          GRAND TOTAL                  IN                     O UT
845-900             9            14           1           2                  26                    34                             9
900-915             9             9           1           1                  20                    49                             7
VEHICLES            18           23           2           3                  46
PASSENG ERS         18           46           6          12                  82                    83                             16



                        NUM BER O F PEO PLE PER VEHICLE                                 ATTENDANCE AT THE CHURCH BUILDING ENTRANCE
TIM E:              1            2           3         4+          GRAND TOTAL                  IN                     O UT
1030-1045           12           10           0           0                  22                    31                             3
1045-1100           4             1           0           0                  5                     10                             0
VEHICLES            16           11           0           0                  27
PASSENG ERS         16           22           0           0                  38                    41                             3
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices

City of Oakland
                                                             Transportation Services Division
                                                                                                                                     9/4/2008
                                                                Traffic Collision History Report                                     Page 1
                                                                      Midblock Collisions


Street:      GOULDIN ROAD
Limit 1:     THORNHILL DRIVE
Limit 2:     END1

Date Range Reported:       10/1/2002 - 9/30/2007
                                                                                                                                                 #     #
                                                                           Motor Veh.                                                           Inj   Kld
Report No.         Date    Dist/Dir         Location     Type of Collision Involved With   DOT1       MPC 1    DOT2   MPC 2   PCF
                   Time
3109186          3/21/07    300'     GOULDIN ROAD/ALHAMBRA AV               Hit Object     Fixed Object West                  Backing     Unsafe Starting or Bac
                    0        0
                                     ENUE                                                                                     king
                 03:15     East of



Total Number of Collisions: 1         Segment Length: 0.40 miles (2,138')
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices

City of Oakland
                                                             Transportation Services Division

                                                               Traffic Collision History Report
                                                                                                                                                               9/4/2008
                                                                                                                                                               Page 1
Location: Thornhill Drive / Gouldin Road
Date Range Reported:       10/1/2002 - 9/30/2007



Report No.    Date     Time     Dist. Dir.   Type of     Motor Veh.      Direct. of   Movement          Direct. of   Movement         PCF                 Inj.   Kil
                                             Collision   Involved With   Travel 1     Prec. Coll. 1     Travel 2     Prec. Coll. 2

 1302939      3/2/04   08:45      40 South Sideswipe     Other Motor Veh West         Entering Traffi    North       Proceeding Stra Unsafe Starting or    0      0
                                                         icle                         c                              ight            Backing



Total Number of Collisions: 1
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices


WILTEC                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944 Fax: (626) 564-0969

SPEED SURVEYS
CLIENT:                     DOWLING ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                    OAKLAND 24-HR SPEED SURVEY
DATE:                       TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2008
LOCATION:                   THORNHILL DRIVE BETWEEN ALHAMBRA LANE AND GOULDIN ROAD
CITY:                       OAKLAND
DIRECTION:                  NORTHBOUND
SPEED LIMIT:                25

  BEGIN TOTAL        0-14    15-19   20-24    25-29   30-34    35-39   40-44   45-49    50-54   55-59   60-64   65-69   70-99     AVG
   TIME              MPH      MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH     MPH     MPH     MPH    SPEED
    0:00        21      0       0       0        5      11        4       1       0        0        0       0       0       0       32
    1:00        11      0       0       0        2       1        5       2       1        0        0       0       0       0       37
    2:00         4      0       0       0        2       2        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
    3:00         3      0       0       0        0       0        2       1       0        0        0       0       0       0       39
    4:00         4      0       0       0        2       0        1       1       0        0        0       0       0       0       33
    5:00         7      1       0       0        1       2        1       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
    6:00        28      0       0       3        7       8        7       2       1        0        0       0       0       0       32
    7:00       106      3       6      15       44      20       14       4       0        0        0       0       0       0       28
    8:00       281     14      80     112       56      15        4       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       22
    9:00       173      0       6      22       73      57       13       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   10:00       156      1       4      22       60      46       21       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   11:00       207      0       6      32       70      68       29       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   12:00       196      0       0      36       75      49       29       7       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   13:00       205      0       1      22       71      72       37       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
   14:00       257      2      11      70      107      53       10       3       1        0        0       0       0       0       27
   15:00       359      1      16      96      158      72       16       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       27
   16:00       329      0       2      39      137     103       44       4       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   17:00       378      0       6      52      137     136       42       5       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   18:00       383      1       6      37      141     122       69       7       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
   19:00       274      3      12      30       51     106       56      15       1        0        0       0       0       0       31
   20:00       215      0       0      14       82      79       34       5       1        0        0       0       0       0       31
   21:00       146      2       2      16       42      52       27       3       1        1        0       0       0       0       30
   22:00        82      0       2       5       22      24       24       4       1        0        0       0       0       0       32
   23:00        53      1       0       5        9      21       12       3       1        1        0       0       0       0       32
DAILY   3878           29     160     628     1354    1119      501      77       8        2        0       0       0      0        29
TOTALS:

PERCENT              0.7%    4.1% 16.2% 34.9% 28.9% 12.9%              2.0%    0.2%     0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
TOTALS:

PERCENTILE SPEEDS:                   10%              15%              50%             85%              90%
                                     21.6             23.1             29.1            35.1             37.0

SPEED EXCEEDED:             45 MPH           55 MPH           65 MPH                   10 MPH PACE SPEED:               25-35
PERCENTAGE:                   0.3             0.0              0.0                     NUMBER IN PACE:                   2473
TOTALS:                       10                0                0                     % IN PACE:                        63.8
Mr. Noack
Addendum to the Supplemental Transportation Study for St. John's Church Renovation
Memorandum
September 23, 2008

Appendices


WILTEC                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944 Fax: (626) 564-0969

SPEED SURVEYS
CLIENT:                     DOWLING ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                    OAKLAND 24-HR SPEED SURVEY
DATE:                       TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2008
LOCATION:                   THORNHILL DRIVE BETWEEN ALHAMBRA LANE AND GOULDIN ROAD
CITY:                       OAKLAND
DIRECTION:                  SOUTHBOUND
SPEED LIMIT:                25

  BEGIN TOTAL        0-14    15-19   20-24    25-29   30-34    35-39   40-44   45-49    50-54   55-59   60-64   65-69   70-99     AVG
   TIME              MPH      MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH     MPH      MPH     MPH     MPH     MPH     MPH    SPEED
    0:00        11      0       0       0        1       6        3       1       0        0        0       0       0       0       34
    1:00         4      0       0       0        1       1        1       1       0        0        0       0       0       0       34
    2:00         5      0       0       0        1       1        1       0       2        0        0       0       0       0       38
    3:00         2      0       0       0        0       0        2       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       37
    4:00        12      0       0       0        2       2        4       3       0        1        0       0       0       0       37
    5:00        50      0       1       2       12      19       11       3       2        0        0       0       0       0       32
    6:00       133      0       2       7       39      47       30       7       1        0        0       0       0       0       32
    7:00       348      3       3      30      117     134       53       8       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
    8:00       456      7      41     162      184      52        8       2       0        0        0       0       0       0       25
    9:00       255      0       6      41       92      86       25       4       1        0        0       0       0       0       29
   10:00       260      0       0      23      108      96       28       5       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
   11:00       226      0       0      22       69      88       43       4       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
   12:00       207      0       1      14       67      76       39      10       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
   13:00       190      0       2      19       66      70       29       3       1        0        0       0       0       0       30
   14:00       201      0       3      37       86      50       20       5       0        0        0       0       0       0       29
   15:00       253      2       8      39      109      78       17       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       28
   16:00       230      0       4      21       68      87       46       4       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
   17:00       223      0       0       8       69     104       36       6       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
   18:00       189      0       0      11       56      75       38       8       1        0        0       0       0       0       31
   19:00       136      0       0       3       50      51       27       2       2        1        0       0       0       0       31
   20:00        90      0       0       6       26      37       19       1       1        0        0       0       0       0       31
   21:00        60      0       0       9       19      19       10       3       0        0        0       0       0       0       30
   22:00        33      0       0       6        6      12        5       4       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
   23:00        13      0       0       2        3       4        4       0       0        0        0       0       0       0       31
DAILY   3587           12      71     462     1251    1195      499      84      11        2        0       0       0      0        30
TOTALS:

PERCENT              0.3%    2.0% 12.9% 34.9% 33.3% 13.9%              2.3%    0.3%     0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
TOTALS:

PERCENTILE SPEEDS:                   10%              15%              50%             85%              90%
                                     23.0             24.9             30.0            35.6             37.4

SPEED EXCEEDED:             45 MPH           55 MPH           65 MPH                   10 MPH PACE SPEED:               25.35
PERCENTAGE:                   0.4             0.0              0.0                     NUMBER IN PACE:                  2446
TOTALS:                       13                0                0                     % IN PACE:                        68.2
                              St John's Episcopal Church Calendar - Church Services, Meetings, and Gatherings for October 2010
Monday                    Tuesday              Wednesday           Thursday             Friday                Saturday                                       Sunday
4-Oct                     5-Oct                      6-Oct                      7-Oct                    8-Oct                    9-Oct                      10-Oct
                          9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm       9:30 - 11:30 am Music    8:30 - 10:30 am Practice   7:45 - 8:30 am Early
                          Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per   Together (20 per hour)   These Principles AA        Eucharist (30)
                          hour)                      hour)                      hour)                                             Group (100)
                          12:00 - 1:00 pm Alanon     Noon - 1:00 pm             8:00 - 9:00 pm Clinton   7:00 - 9:00 pm CVC       10:00 am - 12:00 pm        9:00 - 9:45 am Family
                          Meeting (50)               Eucharist (5)              AA Group (40)            Team Meeting (6)         Altar Guild Set-up (2)     Eucharist (75)
                          12:30 - 1:30 pm Pastoral   7:00 - 9:00 pm Ministry                                                                                 10:45 am - 12:00 pm
                          Care Team (6)              Catalysts Meeting (10)                                                                                  Choral Eucharist (100)
                          6:00 - 8:15 pm Youth       8:00 - 9:00 pm Montclair
                          Choir Rehearsal (20)       AA Group (40)
11-Oct                    12-Oct                     13-Oct                     14-Oct                   15-Oct                   16-Oct                     17-Oct
7:00 - 9:00 pm CVC        9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm       9:30 - 11:30 am Music    8:30 - 10:30 am Practice   7:45 - 8:30 am Early
Team Meeting (6)          Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per   Together (20 per hour)   These Principles AA        Eucharist (30)
                          hour)                      hour)                      hour)                                             Group (100)
                          12:00 - 1:00 pm Alanon     Noon - 1:00 pm             8:00 - 9:00 pm Clinton                            10:00 am - 12:00 pm      9:00 - 9:45 am Family
                          Meeting (50)               Eucharist (5)              AA Group (40)                                     Altar Guild Set-up (2)   Eucharist (75)
                                                     8:00 - 9:00 pm Montclair                                                                              10:45 am - 12:00 pm
                                                     AA Group (40)                                                                                         Choral Eucharist (100)
                                                                                                                                                           5:30 - 8:30 pm Prayin'
                                                                                                                                                           Chicks (8)
18-Oct                    19-Oct                     20-Oct                     21-Oct                   22-Oct                   23-Oct                   24-Oct
7:00 - 10:00 pm Vestry    9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm       9:30 - 11:30 am Music    8:30 - 10:30 am Practice 7:45 - 8:30 am Early
Meeting (12)              Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per   Together (20 per hour)   These Principles AA      Eucharist (30)
                          hour)                      hour)                      hour)                                             Group (100)
                          12:00 - 1:00 pm Alanon     Noon - 1:00 pm             8:00 - 9:00 pm Clinton                            10:00 am - 12:00 pm      9:00 - 9:45 am Family
                          Meeting (50)               Eucharist (5)              AA Group (40)                                     Altar Guild Set-up (2)   Eucharist (75)
                          5:00 - 9:30 pm Men's       8:00 - 9:00 pm Montclair                                                                              10:45 am - 12:00 pm
                          Group Dinner Meeting       AA Group (40)                                                                                         Choral Eucharist (100)
                          (30)
                          6:00 - 8:15 pm Youth
                          Choir Rehearsal (20)
25-Oct                    26-Oct                     27-Oct                     28-Oct                 29-Oct                     30-Oct                     31-Oct
                          9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm         9:30 am - 12:30 pm     9:30 - 11:30 am Music      8:30 - 10:30 am Practice   7:45 - 8:30 am Early
                          Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per     Music Together (20 per Together (20 per hour)     These Principles AA        Eucharist (30)
                          hour)                      hour)                      hour)                                             Group (100)
                          12:00 - 1:00 pm Alanon     Noon - 1:00 pm             5:30 - 9:00 pm Women's                            10:00 am - 12:00 pm        8:15 - 9:00 am Youth
                          Meeting (50)               Eucharist (5)              Group Gathering (30)                              Altar Guild Set-up (2)     Choir Rehearsal (20)
                                                     8:00 - 9:00 pm Montclair   8:00 - 9:00 pm Clinton                                                       9:00 - 9:45 am Family
                                                     AA Group (40)              AA Group (40)                                                                Eucharist (75)
                                                                                                                                                             10:45 am - 12:00 pm
                                                                                                                                                             Choral Eucharist (100)
                                                                                                                                                             5:30 - 8:30 pm Prayin'
                                                                                                                                                             Chicks (8)
Approximate attendance numbers, provided by Dennis Reeve, administrator at St. John's Church, appears in parantheses
Sundays "Java Corps" not listed in calendar because it draws predominantly from parishioners already at the Church for Sunday service
Dowling Associates, Inc
Intersection Level of Service and Peak-Hour Warrants Calculation Sheets   AM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                  Page 1-1
                                                                          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       St. John's Church EIR
Existing (No Project)                                                                                   AM Weekday Existing
                                                                                                      Dowling Associates, Inc
                                                                          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                          Scenario Report
                                                                          Scenario:             AM Existing

                                                                          Command:             AM Existing
                                                                          Volume:              AM Existing
                                                                          Geometry:            Existing
                                                                          Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee
                                                                          Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation
                                                                          Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
                                                                          Paths:               Default Path
                                                                          Routes:              Default Route
                                                                          Configuration:       Default Configuration




                                                                           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                  Page 2-1           AM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                  Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St. John's Church EIR                                                                   St. John's Church EIR
                              AM Weekday Existing                                                                     AM Weekday Existing
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                 Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Impact Analysis Report                                                               Signal Warrant Summary Report
                               Level Of Service                                         Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met
                                                                                                                                   [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]
Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change      # 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???
                                            Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in        # 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???
                                        LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C
#    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   D 31.5 0.480     D 31.5 0.480     + 0.000 D/V

#    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   C   16.2 0.126   C   16.2 0.126   + 0.000 D/V




    Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                 Page 4-1      AM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                 Page 4-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                               AM Weekday Existing                                                                AM Weekday Existing
                             Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound     West Bound      Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R         Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign       Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 320    100     52 440       0     0    0     0 112     0    2    Initial Vol:    0 320    100     52 440       0     0    0     0 112     0    2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx            xxxxxx            xxxxxx           31.5          ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:              912
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:            114
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=1.0]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 244
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=114]                                      SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   SUCCEED - Approach volume greater than or equal to 100 for one lane approach.   This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=1026]                      "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                  Page 4-3     AM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                  Page 4-4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                                AM Weekday Existing                                                                AM Weekday Existing
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 398       0      0 556       0     0    0     0  28    0    62   Initial Vol:    0 398       0      0 556       0     0    0     0  28    0    62
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           16.2         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               954
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             90
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.4]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 232
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=90]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=1044]                      "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing                  Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                    Page 5-1      AM Existing                  Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:47                     Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                                  St. John's Church EIR
                                 AM Weekday Existing                                                                    AM Weekday Existing
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)                                 2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                        Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):         3.9       Worst Case Level Of Service: D[ 31.5]       Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.4       Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 16.2]
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road              Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Alhambra Lane
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound      Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R         Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include          Include       Rights:            Include            Include           Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:         0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 8:15-8:45 AM multiplied by 2              Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 8:15-8:45 AM multiplied by 2
Base Vol:        0 320     100     52 440       0     0    0     0   112    0      2   Base Vol:        0 398       0      0 556       0     0    0      0    28    0     62
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00                Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 320     100     52 440       0     0    0     0   112    0      2   Initial Bse:     0 398       0      0 556       0     0    0      0    28    0     62
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92              PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:      0 348     109     57 478       0     0    0     0   122    0      2   PHF Volume:      0 433       0      0 604       0     0    0      0    30    0     67
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0      0   Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 348     109     57 478       0     0    0     0   122    0      2   FinalVolume:     0 433       0      0 604       0     0    0      0    30    0     67
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:                                                                   Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2   Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3   FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:                                                                       Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      457 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1010 993        402   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1067 1037            433
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1115 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         268 247     652   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          248 233     627
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1115 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        254 234     652   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         242 233     627
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.05 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.48 0.00 0.00                Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.13 0.00 0.11
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:                                                               Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    *      *   LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 256 xxxxx            Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 419 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 2.4 xxxxx      SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.9 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 31.5 xxxxx     Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 16.2 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    D      *   Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    C      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx             31.5          ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx              16.2
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                D          ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                 C
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.                                   Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 1-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   PM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 2-1
                             St. John's Church EIR                                 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              PM Weekday Existing                                                               St. John's Church EIR
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                              PM Weekday Existing
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                               Dowling Associates, Inc
                                Scenario Report                                    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scenario:             PM Existing                                                                              Impact Analysis Report
                                                                                                                  Level Of Service
Command:             PM Existing
Volume:              PM Existing                                                   Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change
Geometry:            Existing                                                                                                  Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in
Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee                                                                                    LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C
Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation                                       #    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   B 14.3 0.120     B 14.3 0.120     + 0.000 D/V
Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
Paths:               Default Path                                                  #    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   B   12.2 0.063   B   12.2 0.063   + 0.000 D/V
Routes:              Default Route
Configuration:       Default Configuration




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
                                                                                       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing                Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 3-1      PM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St. John's Church EIR                                                                St. John's Church EIR
                              PM Weekday Existing                                                                  PM Weekday Existing
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                              Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Signal Warrant Summary Report                                                  Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report
Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met        ********************************************************************************
                                           [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]       Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
# 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???        ********************************************************************************
# 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???        Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
                                                                                   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
                                                                                   Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
                                                                                   Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
                                                                                   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
                                                                                   Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
                                                                                   Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
                                                                                   Initial Vol:    0 254      70     20 238       0     0    0     0  48    0     2
                                                                                   ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           14.3
                                                                                   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
                                                                                   Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]
                                                                                   Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]
                                                                                      FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.
                                                                                   Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=50]
                                                                                      FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.
                                                                                   Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=632]
                                                                                      FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection
                                                                                             with less than four approaches.
                                                                                   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
                                                                                   This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
                                                                                   "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
                                                                                   a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
                                                                                   are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
                                                                                   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

                                                                                   The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
                                                                                   a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
                                                                                   jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
                                                                                   the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 4-2     PM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 4-3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                                PM Weekday Existing                                                                PM Weekday Existing
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]                                          Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 254      70     20 238       0     0    0     0  48    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 298       4      0 294       0     0    0     0  22    0    42
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           12.2
Major Street Volume:               582                                             ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Minor Approach Volume:             50                                              Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]
Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 364                                               Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------      FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER                                                          Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=64]
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an              FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=660]
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant                SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based                          with less than four approaches.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).                            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace           This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible         "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond          a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
the scope of this software, may yield different results.                           are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
                                                                                   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

                                                                                   The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
                                                                                   a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
                                                                                   jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
                                                                                   the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing                 Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                  Page 4-4     PM Existing                  Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                               St. John's Church EIR
                                PM Weekday Existing                                                                 PM Weekday Existing
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                             Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]                                             Level Of Service Computation Report
********************************************************************************                2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  ********************************************************************************
********************************************************************************   Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 ********************************************************************************
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.4       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 14.3]
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     ********************************************************************************
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Initial Vol:    0 298       4      0 294       0     0    0     0  22    0    42   Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign        Stop Sign
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Rights:            Include            Include           Include          Include
Major Street Volume:               596                                             Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0
Minor Approach Volume:             64                                              ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 357                                               Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 2:45-3:15 PM multiplied by 2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Base Vol:        0 254      70     20 238       0     0    0     0    48    0      2
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER                                                          Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           Initial Bse:     0 254      70     20 238       0     0    0     0    48    0      2
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             PHF Volume:      0 276      76     22 259       0     0    0     0    52    0      2
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).                            Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0      0
                                                                                   FinalVolume:     0 276      76     22 259       0     0    0     0    52    0      2
The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace           ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible         Critical Gap Module:
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond          Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2
the scope of this software, may yield different results.                           FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3
                                                                                   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
                                                                                   Capacity Module:
                                                                                   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      352 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     633 616     314
                                                                                   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1218 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         447 409     731
                                                                                   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1218 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        434 401     731
                                                                                   Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.12 0.00 0.00
                                                                                   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
                                                                                   Level Of Service Module:
                                                                                   2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
                                                                                   Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
                                                                                   LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    *      *
                                                                                   Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
                                                                                   Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 442 xxxxx
                                                                                   SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx
                                                                                   Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 14.3 xxxxx
                                                                                   Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    B      *
                                                                                   ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx             14.3
                                                                                   ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                B
                                                                                   ********************************************************************************
                                                                                   Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
                                                                                   ********************************************************************************




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND        Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
                                                                                        Sunday Existing            Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                  Page 1-1
PM Existing                  Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:56                     Page 6-1      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                     St John's Church EIR
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                                   Sunday Existing
                                 PM Weekday Existing                                                               Dowling Associates, Inc.
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                        Scenario Report
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                             Scenario:             Sunday Existing
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************        Command:             Sunday Existing
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                       Volume:              Sunday Existing
********************************************************************************        Geometry:            Existing
Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.2       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 12.2]        Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee
********************************************************************************        Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Alhambra Lane              Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound      Paths:               Default Path
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R         Routes:              Default Route
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|        Configuration:       Default Configuration
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 2:45-3:15 AM multiplied by 2
Base Vol:        0 298       4      0 294       0     0    0      0    22    0     42
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 298       4      0 294       0     0    0      0    22    0     42
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:      0 324       4      0 320       0     0    0      0    24    0     46
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 324       4      0 320       0     0    0      0    24    0     46
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          676 646     326
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          422 393     720
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         412 393     720
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.06
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 572 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 12.2 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx              12.2
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                 B
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************



                                                                                         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing            Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                  Page 2-1           Sunday Existing            Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                  Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St John's Church EIR                                                                    St John's Church EIR
                                Sunday Existing                                                                         Sunday Existing
                           Dowling Associates, Inc.                                                                Dowling Associates, Inc.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Impact Analysis Report                                                               Signal Warrant Summary Report
                               Level Of Service                                         Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met
                                                                                                                                   [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]
Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change      # 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???
                                            Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in        # 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???
                                        LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C
#    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   B 12.9 0.200     B 12.9 0.200     + 0.000 D/V

#    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   B   14.4 0.155   B   14.4 0.155   + 0.000 D/V




    Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                Page 4-1      Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                Page 4-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St John's Church EIR                                                               St John's Church EIR
                                  Sunday Existing                                                                    Sunday Existing
                             Dowling Associates, Inc.                                                           Dowling Associates, Inc.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound     West Bound      Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R      L - T - R         Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R      L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign      Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0      0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0      0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:     0 137      84     3 203       0    0    0     0  65     0    2    Initial Vol:     0 137      84     3 203       0    0    0     0  65     0    2
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           12.9          ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               427
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             67
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 446
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=67]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=494]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                Page 4-3      Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                Page 4-4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St John's Church EIR                                                               St John's Church EIR
                                  Sunday Existing                                                                    Sunday Existing
                             Dowling Associates, Inc.                                                           Dowling Associates, Inc.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound     West Bound      Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R      L - T - R         Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R      L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign      Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0      0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0      0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:     0 250       1     1 279       0    0    0     0  28     0    1    Initial Vol:     0 250       1     1 279       0    0    0     0  28     0    1
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           14.4          ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               531
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             29
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.1]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 388
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=29]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=560]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                  Page 5-1      Sunday Existing              Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:47:30                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------     --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St John's Church EIR                                                                 St John's Church EIR
                                  Sunday Existing                                                                      Sunday Existing
                             Dowling Associates, Inc.                                                             Dowling Associates, Inc.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------     --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                                                  Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)                               2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************     ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                      Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************     ********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):        2.6       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 12.9]      Average Delay (sec/veh):        1.6       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 14.4]
********************************************************************************     ********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                      Gouldin Road              Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                      Alhambra Lane
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound      Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R         Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|     ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled      Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include          Include       Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0        0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|     ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 18 Mar 2007 << 11:30 am - 12:30 pm                     Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 137      84     3 203       0    0    0     0    65    0      2   Base Vol:        0 250       1     1 279       0    0    0      0    28    0      1
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 137      84     3 203       0    0    0     0    65    0      2   Initial Bse:     0 250       1     1 279       0    0    0      0    28    0      1
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00            User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.57 0.57 0.57            PHF Adj:      1.00 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.40 0.40 0.40
PHF Volume:      0 149      91     3 221       0    0    0     0   114    0      4   PHF Volume:      0 272       1     1 303       0    0    0      0    70    0      3
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0   Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 149      91     3 221       0    0    0     0   114    0      4   FinalVolume:     0 272       1     1 303       0    0    0      0    70    0      3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|     ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:                                                                 Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   6.4 6.5     6.2   Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   3.5 4.0     3.3   FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|     ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:                                                                     Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx     240 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx    439 422     195   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx     273 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     608 578     272
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1338 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       579 526     852   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1302 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        462 430     771
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1338 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      570 525     852   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1302 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       451 429     771
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.20 0.00 0.00              Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.16 0.00 0.00
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|     ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:                                                             Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     7.7 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *     A    *      *    *    *     *     *    *      *   LOS by Move:     *    *      *     A    *      *    *    *      *     *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     Movement:      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 576 xxxxx          Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 457 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.8 xxxxx     SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.6 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     7.7 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 12.9 xxxxx    Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 14.4 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *     A    *      *    *    *     *     *    B      *   Shared LOS:      *    *      *     A    *      *    *    *      *     *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx           xxxxxx             12.9          ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx           xxxxxx              14.4
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                *                B          ApproachLOS:          *                 *                *                 B
********************************************************************************     ********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.                                 Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************     ********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Intersection Level of Service and Peak-Hour Warrants Calculation Sheets   AM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:11                  Page 1-1
                                                                          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       St. John's Church EIR
Existing + Project                                                                                 AM Weekday Existing + Project
                                                                                                      Dowling Associates, Inc
                                                                          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                          Scenario Report
                                                                          Scenario:             AM Existing + Project

                                                                          Command:             AM Existing + Project
                                                                          Volume:              AM Existing + Project
                                                                          Geometry:            Proposed
                                                                          Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee
                                                                          Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation
                                                                          Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
                                                                          Paths:               Default Path
                                                                          Routes:              Default Route
                                                                          Configuration:       Default Configuration




                                                                           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 2-1           AM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St. John's Church EIR                                                                   St. John's Church EIR
                         AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                           AM Weekday Existing + Project
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                 Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Impact Analysis Report                                                               Signal Warrant Summary Report
                               Level Of Service                                         Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met
                                                                                                                                   [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]
Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change      # 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???
                                            Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in        # 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???
                                        LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C                  # 3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's      No / No               ??? / ???
#    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   D 25.4 0.413     D 25.4 0.413     + 0.000 D/V

#    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   C   19.3 0.061   C   19.3 0.061   + 0.000 D/V

#    3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. Jo   B   13.7 0.095   B   13.7 0.095   + 0.000 D/V




    Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-1     AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      AM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 320      40     22 470       0     0    0     0 112    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 320      40     22 470       0     0    0     0 112    0     2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           25.4         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               852
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             114
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.8]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 262
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=114]                                      SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   SUCCEED - Approach volume greater than or equal to 100 for one lane approach.   This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=966]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-3     AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      AM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 398       0      0 580       0     0    0     0  14    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 398       0      0 580       0     0    0     0  14    0     2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           19.3         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               978
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             16
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.1]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 225
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=16]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=994]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-5     AM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                  Page 4-6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      AM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway                        Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0  14    0    60   Initial Vol:    0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0  14    0    60
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           13.7         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               1043
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             74
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.3]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 208
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=74]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=1117]                      "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
AM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                    Page 5-1      AM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                     Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                                  St. John's Church EIR
                           AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                          AM Weekday Existing + Project
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)                                 2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                        Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):         3.2       Worst Case Level Of Service: D[ 25.4]       Average Delay (sec/veh):         0.3       Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 19.3]
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road              Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Alhambra Lane
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound      Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R         Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include          Include       Rights:            Include            Include           Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:         0 0 1 0 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:                                                                         Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 320      40     22 470       0     0    0     0   112    0      2   Base Vol:        0 398       0      0 580       0     0    0      0    14    0      2
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00                Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 320      40     22 470       0     0    0     0   112    0      2   Initial Bse:     0 398       0      0 580       0     0    0      0    14    0      2
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92              PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:      0 348      43     24 511       0     0    0     0   122    0      2   PHF Volume:      0 433       0      0 630       0     0    0      0    15    0      2
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0      0   Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 348      43     24 511       0     0    0     0   122    0      2   FinalVolume:     0 433       0      0 630       0     0    0      0    15    0      2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:                                                                   Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2   Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3   FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:                                                                       Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      391 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     928 928     392   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1063 1063            473
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1178 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         300 270     661   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          249 225     596
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1178 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        295 264     649   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         249 225     576
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.41 0.00 0.00                Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.00
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:                                                               Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    *      *   LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 298 xxxxx            Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 268 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 2.0 xxxxx      SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.2 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 25.4 xxxxx     Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 19.3 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    D      *   Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    C      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx             25.4          ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx              19.3
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                D          ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                 C
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.                                   Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
                                                                                      PM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 1-1
AM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:12                   Page 7-1      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                   St. John's Church EIR
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                          PM Weekday Existing + Project
                           AM Weekday Existing + Project                                                          Dowling Associates, Inc
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                      Scenario Report
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                           Scenario:             PM Existing + Project
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************      Command:             PM Existing + Project
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway                           Volume:              PM Existing + Project
********************************************************************************      Geometry:            Proposed
Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.1       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.7]      Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee
********************************************************************************      Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation
Street Name:             Thornhill Dr               Proposed St. John's driveway      Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound      West Bound      Paths:               Default Path
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R         Routes:              Default Route
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|      Configuration:       Default Configuration
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign       Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include         Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0   14    0     60
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0   14    0     60
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0   14    0     60
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 400      61     30 552       0     0    0     0   14    0     60
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      461 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1043 1043      431
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1111 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        256 231     629
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1111 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       251 225     629
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.10
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 490 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.5 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 13.7 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx            13.7
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *               B
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************



                                                                                       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 2-1           PM Existing + Project      Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St. John's Church EIR                                                                   St. John's Church EIR
                         PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                           PM Weekday Existing + Project
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                 Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Impact Analysis Report                                                               Signal Warrant Summary Report
                               Level Of Service                                         Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met
                                                                                                                                   [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]
Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change      # 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???
                                            Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in        # 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???
                                        LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C                  # 3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's      No / No               ??? / ???
#    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   B 13.3 0.108     B 13.3 0.108     + 0.000 D/V

#    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   B   13.1 0.028   B   13.1 0.028   + 0.000 D/V

#    3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. Jo   B   11.2 0.056   B   11.2 0.056   + 0.000 D/V




    Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-1     PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      PM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 254      20      6 252       0     0    0     0  48    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 254      20      6 252       0     0    0     0  48    0     2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           13.3         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               532
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             50
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 388
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=50]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=582]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-3     PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      PM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 298       4      0 305       0     0    0     0  11    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 298       4      0 305       0     0    0     0  11    0     2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           13.1         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               607
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             13
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.0]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 353
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=13]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=620]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-5     PM Existing + Project       Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                  Page 4-6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                         PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                      PM Weekday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway                        Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0  11    0    40   Initial Vol:    0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0  11    0    40
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           11.2         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               665
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             51
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 328
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=51]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=716]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   SUCCEED - Total volume greater than or equal to 650 for intersection            a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
             with less than four approaches.                                       are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
PM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:21                    Page 5-1      PM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:22                     Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                                  St. John's Church EIR
                           PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                          PM Weekday Existing + Project
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)                                 2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                        Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.2       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.3]       Average Delay (sec/veh):         0.3       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.1]
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road              Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Alhambra Lane
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound      Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R         Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include          Include       Rights:            Include            Include           Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 0 1 0 0        0 0 0 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:                                                                         Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 254      20      6 252       0     0    0     0    48    0      2   Base Vol:        0 298       4      0 305       0     0    0      0    11    0      2
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00                Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 254      20      6 252       0     0    0     0    48    0      2   Initial Bse:     0 298       4      0 305       0     0    0      0    11    0      2
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92              PHF Adj:      0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:      0 276      22      7 274       0     0    0     0    52    0      2   PHF Volume:      0 324       4      0 332       0     0    0      0    12    0      2
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0      0   Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 276      22      7 274       0     0    0     0    52    0      2   FinalVolume:     0 324       4      0 332       0     0    0      0    12    0      2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:                                                                   Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2   Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3   FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx        3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:                                                                       Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      298 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     574 574     309   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          658 658     366
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1275 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         484 432     736   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          432 387     684
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1275 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        482 430     722   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         432 387     661
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.01 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.11 0.00 0.00                Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 0.00 0.00
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:                                                               Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    *      *   LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 488 xxxxx            Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 457 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx      SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.1 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 13.3 xxxxx     Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 13.1 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    B      *   Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *      *     *    *      *     *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx             13.3          ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx              13.1
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                B          ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                 B
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.                                   Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
                                                                                      Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                   Page 1-1
PM Existing + Project        Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:22                   Page 7-1      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                   St. John's Church EIR
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                            Sunday Existing + Project
                           PM Weekday Existing + Project                                                          Dowling Associates, Inc
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                      Scenario Report
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                           Scenario:             Sunday Existing + Project
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************      Command:             Sunday Existing + Project
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway                           Volume:              Sunday Existing + Project
********************************************************************************      Geometry:            Proposed
Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.0       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.2]      Impact Fee:          Default Impact Fee
********************************************************************************      Trip Generation:     Default Trip Generation
Street Name:             Thornhill Dr               Proposed St. John's driveway      Trip Distribution:   Default Trip Distribution
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound      West Bound      Paths:               Default Path
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R         Routes:              Default Route
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|      Configuration:       Default Configuration
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign       Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include         Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0   11    0     40
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0   11    0     40
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0   11    0     40
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 300      51     14 300       0     0    0     0   11    0     40
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      351 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx    654 654     326
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1219 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        435 389     720
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1219 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       431 385     720
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.01 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 0.00 0.06
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 629 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.3 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      8.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.2 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx            11.2
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *               B
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************



                                                                                       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                   Page 2-1           Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                   Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             St. John's Church EIR                                                                   St. John's Church EIR
                           Sunday Existing + Project                                                               Sunday Existing + Project
                            Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                 Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Impact Analysis Report                                                               Signal Warrant Summary Report
                               Level Of Service                                         Intersection                                Base Met             Future Met
                                                                                                                                   [Del / Vol]           [Del / Vol]
Intersection                                  Base            Future        Change      # 1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road         No / No               ??? / ???
                                            Del/   V/        Del/    V/       in        # 2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane       No / No               ??? / ???
                                        LOS Veh    C     LOS Veh     C                  # 3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's      No / No               ??? / ???
#    1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Roa   B 11.1 0.100     B 11.1 0.100     + 0.000 D/V

#    2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra L   B   12.5 0.038   B   12.5 0.038   + 0.000 D/V

#    3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. Jo   B   12.5 0.041   B   12.5 0.041   + 0.000 D/V




    Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND         Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-1     Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                            Sunday Existing + Project                                                          Sunday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                    Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0  65    0     2   Initial Vol:    0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0  65    0     2
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           11.1         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               354
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             67
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.2]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 496
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=67]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=421]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-3     Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                            Sunday Existing + Project                                                          Sunday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane                                  Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       1 0 0 0 0        Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       1 0 0 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0     0  19    0     0   Initial Vol:    0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0     0  19    0     0
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           12.5         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               551
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             19
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.1]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 378
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=19]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=570]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-5     Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                    Page 4-6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               St. John's Church EIR                                                              St. John's Church EIR
                            Sunday Existing + Project                                                          Sunday Existing + Project
                              Dowling Associates, Inc                                                            Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Peak Hour Delay Signal Warrant Report                                         Peak Hour Volume Signal Warrant Report [Urban]
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway                        Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway
********************************************************************************   ********************************************************************************
Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met                                 Base Volume Alternative: Peak Hour Warrant NOT Met
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound     Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound     West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R        Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign      Control:       Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign      Stop Sign
Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0       Lanes:        0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0
Initial Vol:    0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0  20    0     1   Initial Vol:    0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0  20    0     1
ApproachDel:    xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx           12.5         ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|   Major Street Volume:               606
Approach[westbound][lanes=1][control=Stop Sign]                                    Minor Approach Volume:             21
Signal Warrant Rule #1: [vehicle-hours=0.1]                                        Minor Approach Volume Threshold: 353
   FAIL - Vehicle-hours less than 4 for one lane approach.                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Warrant Rule #2: [approach volume=21]                                       SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
   FAIL - Approach volume less than 100 for one lane approach.                     This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an
Signal Warrant Rule #3: [approach count=3][total volume=627]                       "indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting
   FAIL - Total volume less than 650 for intersection                              a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant
          with less than four approaches.                                          are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------   signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).
SIGNAL WARRANT DISCLAIMER
This peak hour signal warrant analysis should be considered solely as an           The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
"indicator" of the likelihood of an unsignalized intersection warranting           a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
a traffic signal in the future. Intersections that exceed this warrant             jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
are probably more likely to meet one or more of the other volume based             the scope of this software, may yield different results.
signal warrant (such as the 4-hour or 8-hour warrants).

The peak hour warrant analysis in this report is not intended to replace
a rigorous and complete traffic signal warrant analysis by the responsible
jurisdiction. Consideration of the other signal warrants, which is beyond
the scope of this software, may yield different results.




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND       Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                       Page 5-1      Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:30                        Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                St. John's Church EIR                                                                  St. John's Church EIR
                             Sunday Existing + Project                                                              Sunday Existing + Project
                               Dowling Associates, Inc                                                                Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)                                 2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Thornhill Drive at Gouldin Road                                        Intersection #2 Thornhill Drive and Alhambra Lane
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):         1.8       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.1]       Average Delay (sec/veh):         0.4       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 12.5]
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Gouldin Road              Street Name:          Thornhill Drive                        Alhambra Lane
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound      Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R         Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include          Include       Rights:            Include            Include           Include           Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0        Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0          1 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:                                                                         Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0    65    0      2   Base Vol:        0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0      0    19    0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00                Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0    65    0      2   Initial Bse:     0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0      0    19    0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00              PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0    65    0      2   PHF Volume:      0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0      0    19    0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0      0   Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 137       7      2 208       0     0    0     0    65    0      2   FinalVolume:     0 250       1      1 299       0     0    0      0    19    0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:                                                                   Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    6.4 6.5     6.2   Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     6.4 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    3.5 4.0     3.3   FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     3.5 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:                                                                       Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      144 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     353 353     163   Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      251 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      552 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1451 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         649 576     888   Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1326 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx          499 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1451 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        649 575     871   Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1326 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         498 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.10 0.00 0.00                Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.04 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|       ------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:                                                               Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.1 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx     Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.7 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx 12.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    *      *   LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *      *     B    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 653 xxxxx            Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.3 xxxxx      SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.1 xxxxx     Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.7 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *     *    B      *   Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *      *     *    *      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.1          ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx              12.5
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                B          ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *                 B
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.                                   Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************       ********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND           Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
Sunday Existing + Project Wed Sep 8, 2010 10:48:31                      Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                St. John's Church EIR
                             Sunday Existing + Project
                               Dowling Associates, Inc
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Thornhill Dr & Proposed St. John's driveway
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):         0.4       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 12.5]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:             Thornhill Dr               Proposed St. John's driveway
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound      West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled       Uncontrolled       Stop Sign       Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include           Include         Include
Lanes:         0 0 0 1 0          0 1 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0   20    0      1
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0   20    0      1
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0   20    0      1
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0      0
FinalVolume:     0 250      88      1 267       0     0    0     0   20    0      1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   6.4 6.5     6.2
FollowUpTim:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   3.5 4.0     3.3
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: xxxx xxxx xxxxx      338 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx    563 563     294
Potent Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1232 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        491 438     750
Move Cap.:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1232 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       491 438     750
Volume/Cap: xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.04 0.00 0.00
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.9 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    *      *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 499 xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.1 xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.9 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 12.5 xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      A    *      *     *    *     *    *    B      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xxxxxx            12.5
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                 *               B
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to DOWLING ASSOC., OAKLAND
