City of Antioch

Davidon Homes (Park Ridge Subdivision #8846)
       Addendum to Project Level EIR
          for FUA #2 Specific Plan




                           January 2009

                            Prepared for:
                           City of Antioch
               Community Development Department
                     City Hall 3rd and H Streets
                           P.O. Box 5007
                      Antioch, CA 94531-5007
                           925.779.7035
              Contact: Mindy Gentry, Associate Planner

                           Prepared by:
                     Richard T. Loewke, AICP
                  Urban & Environmental Planning

                           925.831.8016
                     TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1: Summary
          A. Introduction                                                      1
          B. Previous EIR and Need for Addendum                                3

Chapter 2: Project Description
          A. Proposed Land Uses and Improvements                               7
          B. Relationship to Adopted FUA #2 Specific Plan                     13
          C. Environmental Context of Proposed Project                        17

Chapter 3: Environmental Setting, Impacts and Mitigation
          A. Certified FEIR for FUA #2 Specific Plan                          20
          B. Updated CEQA Documentation                                       21
             (1) Traffic                                                      21
             (2) Noise                                                        44
             (3) Open Space, Trail and Grading Designs                        47
             (4) Vegetation and Wildlife                                      50

Chapter 4: Conclusions
          A. No Substantial Change in the Project                             58
          B. No Substantial Changes in Circumstances                          58
          C. No New Information of Substantial Importance                     58

Chapter 5: Report Preparation
          A. Development Team                                                 59
          B. City of Antioch                                                  59
          C. Richard T. Loewke, AICP, and Subconsultants                      59

Appendices
          Appendix A: Transportation Analysis & Appendices
          Appendix B: Biological Assessment
          Appendix C: Burrowing Owl Banding Report
          Appendix D: Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol & Mitigation Guidelines
          Appendix E: CDFG Staff Report on Burrowing Owl Mitigation
          Appendix F: Albion Report on Burrowing Owl Site Eviction
          Appendix G: City Council RDA Allocation Resolution No. 2004/118
          Appendix H: USACE and CDFG Jurisdictional Determinations
          Appendix I: Specific Plan Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Plan
          Appendix J: City Council Resolution 2005/14
          Appendix K: City of Antioch Project Pipeline, August 15, 2008

                                                                               i
                            LIST OF FIGURES
FIGURE   TITLE                                                  PAGE

  1      Project Location                                          2
  2      Tentative Map & Development Plan, Subdivision 8846        9
  3      Preliminary Phasing Plan, Subdivision 8846               10
  4      Illustrative Site Plan, Subdivision 8846                 11
  5      Preliminary Grading Phase I                              12
  6      Original 1996 Specific Plan Land Use Map                 15
  7      Current Specific Plan Land Use Map                       16
  8      Parcel Map Separating Delizia and Davidon Properties     19
  9      Study Area Intersection Locations                        22
  10     High Visibility Crosswalks                               32
  11     In-Crosswalk Signage                                     32
  12     Flashing Beacons/Signs                                   33
  13     In-Pavement Warning Lights                               34
  14     HAWK Signal                                              35
  15     Photograph of Canada Valley Road at Lone Tree Way        42
  16     Example Masonry Wall to Reduce Noise Levels              45
  17     Specific Plan EIR Noise Forecast                         46
  18     ELTSP Open Space Grading Policy Exhibit                  48
  19     Location of Surveyed Burrowing Owls                      52
  20     Photograph of Area Occupied by Burrowing Owls            52




                                                                   ii
                          LIST OF TABLES
TABLE   TITLE                                                                 PAGE

  1     Intersection Level Of Service Definitions (CCTA)                        23
  2     Intersection Level Of Service Definitions (Highway Capacity Manual)     24
  3     Existing Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service                          26
  4     Proposed Project Trip Generation                                        27
  5     Near Term Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service                         28
  6     Queue Lengths at Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road                       30
  7     Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service                        39
  8     Cumulative Conditions Delay Index Summary                               43




                                                                                 iii
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                                      1. Summary

A. Introduction
This Addendum to the project level environmental impact report for the Future Urbanization
Area (FUA) #2 Specific Plan has been prepared by the City of Antioch in compliance with
the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The previous project
EIR was certified in May 1996 based on the detailed development program identified in the
Specific Plan. The City also updated its General Plan in November of 2003, providing
additional policy direction for land use, housing, circulation and other long-range community
planning issues. This Addendum identifies minor changes in the proposed development
program for the subject 169.7-acre project site, along with updated site and contextual
information useful in review of the proposed project.

The project (Park Ridge Subdivision #8846) consists of the subdivision and development of
169.7 acres within the FUA #2 Specific Plan area, located between the State Route 4
Bypass and Canada Valley Road, south of Laurel Road (see Figure 1). The project
sponsor, Davidon Homes, proposes to develop a total of 525 single-family residential
homes, and related public facilities as further described in Chapter 2A below. The project
site adjoins existing or approved development to the west and south, and adjoins the State
Route 4 Bypass to the east.

Development of the project, as proposed, includes a neighborhood park facility (8.22 acres),
a major public open space preserve (25.5 acres) and the extension of Country Hills Drive
along the east boundary of the site adjoining the State Route 4 Bypass, as called for in the
Specific Plan. Full implementation of the project will also require completion of off-site
improvements, consisting of a northerly extension of Country Hills Drive for a distance of
approximately 400 feet to connect with a westerly extension of Laurel Road for a distance of
approximately 400 feet. Construction of these roadway segments and the Laurel
Road/Country Hills Drive intersection will provide an additional local access to the State
Route 4 Bypass, consistent with the adopted Specific Plan. This Addendum examines the
consistency of the current project design and implementation with the Specific Plan and the
previous project EIR. Following this Summary Chapter, the Addendum includes the
following major components:

       Chapter 2: Project Description
       Chapter 3: Review of Current Project Setting, Impacts and Mitigation Measures
       Chapter 4: Conclusions
       Chapter 5: References
       Chapter 6: Technical Appendices


                                                                                             1
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 1: Project Location
                                                     2
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



B. Previous EIR and Need for Addendum
The East Lone Tree Specific Plan EIR was certified in May of 19961 (Specific Plan EIR).
The Specific Plan EIR evaluated development on all of the properties within the 785-acre
planning area at a project level, and included specific mitigation measures to address both
site-specific and cumulative effects of planned development. The Specific Plan establishes
detailed land use and residential density standards, guidelines for preservation and
improvement of open space, parks and trail systems, and design standards for residential,
commercial, employment and public facility uses. It also delineates the improvement of
utility and roadway infrastructure needed to serve the planning area.

The Specific Plan EIR identifies significance thresholds for all project impacts, and includes
a comprehensive set of mitigation measures to reduce the potential effects of planned
development on traffic, noise, air quality, geology and soils, flooding and drainage, public
safety, public services and infrastructure, cultural resources, visual resources and
cumulative effects. In all cases other than regional air quality, the proposed mitigation
measures were found to reduce the effects of buildout under the Specific Plan to a less-
than-significant level. The City adopted a single Statement of Overriding Considerations on
May 28, 1996, finding that the benefits derived from implementing the Specific Plan
outweighed a remaining (unavoidable) post-mitigation significant effect on regional air
quality. As further discussed in Chapters 3 and 4, the air quality and other environmental
effects of the proposed Park Ridge project would be no greater than those associated with
the original Specific Plan project. This addendum has been prepared incorporating updated
project information, with recommendations for refinement of several original Specific Plan
mitigation measures, as appropriate, to efficiently address the current project design and
context.

The Specific Plan EIR tiers from a programmatic analysis of utility, roadway and services
demands as evaluated three years earlier in the EIR for the Antioch Infrastructure Plan2.
The Antioch Infrastructure Plan EIR evaluated the effects of urbanization within the Lone
Tree Valley (FUA #1) and the East Lone Tree Planning Area (also known as FUA #2). It
identified a plan for annexation of both planning areas, and addressed circulation, open
space and land use needs for each of the areas. The Specific Plan and Infrastructure Plan
EIR's also tier from the environmental analysis prepared for the 1988 Antioch General Plan3
which identified the westerly portions of the current Specific Plan area as being suitable for
residential development, while the flat lands within the easterly portion of the planning area
were identified as being reserved for employment generating uses. As further discussed in
Chapter 3, the cumulative effects of development contemplated under the Specific Plan
were verified and incorporated into the more recent 2003 Antioch General Plan EIR
analysis4. The conclusions with respect to the effects of the proposed project have also
been found to be consistent with the cumulative analysis prepared for the 2003 General
Plan update.
An addendum to the Specific Plan EIR was prepared in 2002 for the Slatten Ranch
1
  Mundie & Associates, Draft and Final EIR for FUA #2 Specific Plan, SCH #93-111069.
2
  Mundie & Associates, Draft and Final EIR for the Antioch Infrastructure Plan. SCH #91123021.
3
  EIP Associates, Draft and Final EIR for 1988 Antioch General Plan.
4
  LSA Associates, Inc., Draft and Final EIR for 2003 Antioch General Plan.
                                                                                                 3
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

commercial development located on the north of Lone Tree Way, between the State Route
4 Bypass and Empire Road5. The Slatten Ranch development involved the construction of
433,179 square feet of regionally oriented commercial development on 42.51 acres
originally planned for a combination of Regional Retail and Regional Retail/Employment
uses (see Figure 6). The Specific Plan was revised to reflect a uniform land use designation
of Regional Retail, concurrently with entitlement of the project site. Completion of the
Slatten Ranch project has resulted in implementation of urban uses along the entire Lone
Tree Way frontage of the Specific Plan area (as seen in Figure 1).

A subsequent Addendum to the Specific Plan EIR was prepared in 2004 to address a
planned development to the north of the proposed project (Laurel Ranch)6. The Laurel
Ranch Addendum considered the effects of an increased density housing project involving
86 units on 11.4 acres of the site, or 7.5 units per acre (compared to the 2-4 units per acre
identified in the Specific Plan). Overall the project was to provide a total of 217 dwelling
units and 10 acres of commercial use on a 56-acre site. The subdivision and related
entitlements for the Laurel Ranch project were initially granted, but have since expired.
Consequently, no definitive plans currently exist for the timely extension of Laurel Road east
to the Bypass, or for the northerly connection of Country Hills Drive at Laurel Road.

The City of Antioch adopted a third Specific Plan EIR Addendum in July of 2005 to address
a number of minor revisions to the original Land Use and Circulation components of the
original Specific Plan (shown in Figure 6). Several of the Specific Plan revisions were
prepared in response to final design plans for Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass
project, as well as the application of Caltrans standards for separation of freeway on-ramps
and adjoining intersections. Following is a summary of the Specific Plan revisions
addressed in the July 2005 Addendum, which are reflected graphically in Figure 7:

          Laurel Road realigned slightly to the south to follow the northerly boundary of the
          subject Park Ridge project.
          Interchange of Laurel Road at SR 4 Bypass modified in response to grade changes
          and overcrossing of railroad tracks to the east.
          Intersection of Country Hills Drive at Laurel Road moved to the west to maintain
          increased separation from freeway on- and off-ramps.
          Configuration and access to the planned commercial site to the east of the subject
          property were changed to accommodate access from realigned Country Hills Drive.
          The previously designated elementary school site was formally determined to be
          unnecessary by AUSD, and was replaced with additional housing on the adjoining
          vacant property to the north of the subject site.
          Flexibility added to land use program for major non-residential properties located
          along Sunset Drive, with addition of mixed Regional Commercial and Employment
          classification.



5
    Mundie & Associates, Slatten Ranch Project Addendum.
6
    Michael Brandman Associates, Addendum to Project Level EIR on the Laurel Ranch Project. February 2004.
                                                                                                         4
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



This Park Ridge Addendum has been prepared in accordance with the standards identified
in Section 15164 of the CEQA Guidelines to evaluate the proposed project. As discussed in
Chapters 2 and 3, the proposed project calls for residential densities which are consistent
with those identified in the Specific Plan. The project employs a preliminary grading design
which differs slightly from the standards identified in the Specific Plan; nevertheless the
relationship of proposed homes to planned park and open space facilities achieves the
basic purposes of the Specific Plan. Subsection (a) of CEQA Guidelines Section 15164
provides that:

       "The lead agency or responsible agency shall prepare an addendum to a
       previously certified EIR if some changes or additions are necessary but
       none of the conditions described in Section 15162 calling for preparation
       of a subsequent EIR have occurred."

It is the conclusion of the analysis presented in Chapters 2 and 3 that none of the
conditions identified in Guidelines Section 15162, as summarized below, would apply to the
proposed project for the following reasons:

   (1) Substantial changes proposed in the project which will require major revisions
       of the previous EIR due to the involvement of new significant environmental
       effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified
       significant effects. The proposed project is consistent with all elements of the
       adopted Specific Plan, and would therefore not result in new or expanded impacts
       beyond those identified in the previously certified Specific Plan EIR and Addendum.

   (2) Substantial changes with respect to the circumstances under which the project
       is undertaken which will require major revisions of the previous EIR due to the
       involvement of new significant environmental effects or a substantial increase
       in the severity of previously identified significant effects. No substantial
       changes have occurred within the planning area, community or region which would
       lead to new or expanded significant project impacts. As documented in the attached
       Technical Appendices and reviewed in Chapters 2 and 3, cumulative development
       within the planning area is no greater than anticipated under the Specific Plan
       project-level EIR. The project site now adjoins the completed State Route 4 Bypass
       to the east, and a substantially complete housing development to the south.
       Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass provides additional capacity to relieve traffic
       volumes on local feeder streets to Highway 4. Consequently, development of the
       proposed project would occur in the context of additional existing development and
       local roadway improvements. The Addendum therefore provides an updated
       description of current conditions and anticipated development over the next several
       years, in order to address the potential near-term impacts.

   (3) New information of substantial importance, which was not known and could
       not have been known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the
       previous EIR was certified as complete, shows any of the following:


                                                                                           5
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

       (a) The project will have one or more significant effects not discussed in the
           previous EIR or negative declaration. The proposed Park Ridge project does
           not present any new potentially significant effects not evaluated in the previous
           EIR.

       (b) Significant effects previously examined will be substantially more severe
           than shown in the previous EIR. The analysis provided in this Addendum
           shows that the previously identified significant effects of the Specific Plan would
           not be accentuated through implementation of the proposed Park Ridge project.

       (c) Mitigation measures or alternatives previously found not to be feasible
           would in fact be feasible, and would substantially reduce one or more
           significant effects of the project, but the project proponents decline to
           adopt the mitigation measure or alternative. No changes in the feasibility of
           Specific Plan mitigation measures have been identified.

       (d) Mitigation measures or alternatives which are considerably different from
           those analyzed in the previous EIR would substantially reduce one or more
           significant effects on the environment, but the project proponents decline to
           adopt the mitigation measure or alternative. Several supplemental mitigation
           measures are recommended to address the specific design, context and timing of
           the proposed Park Ridge project. In addition, supplemental measures are also
           recommended to minimize the otherwise less-than-significant near-term effects of
           development contemplated in a maturing urban setting. Collectively, these
           measures are consistent with those adopted in the certified Specific Plan EIR (see
           Appendix I). Additional specificity has been added with the recommended
           supplemental measures, while not resulting in any substantial changes to the
           post-mitigation project effects. Chapter 3 correlates all recommended
           supplemental mitigation measures to the original EIR measures, and discusses
           whether they apply to: (1) the current project context; (2) specific less-than-
           significant effects of the current project; or (3) both of the foregoing issues.




                                                                                                 6
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



2. Project Description

A. Proposed Land Uses and Improvements
The development plan identifies a total of 525 single-family residential homes, including 227
minimum 6,000 square foot lots and 298 minimum 5,000 square foot lots (see Figure 2).
The plan also identifies an 8.22-acre neighborhood park designed to serve the entire
Specific Plan area, 25.5 acres of dedicated central open space, approximately 36.1 acres of
public streets, and 11.7 acres adjoining residual parcels. A lot line adjustment or right-of-
way acquisition is called for affecting the adjoining Delizia Ranch LLC and Nunn properties,
located northeast of the subject property, along the planned extension of Country Hills
Drive. Country Hills Drive is identified as a collector street in the Specific Plan, extending
through each of the residential properties west of the State Route 4 Bypass. In order to
complete buildout of the subject Park Ridge project, Country Hills Drive will be extended
approximately 400 feet north from the project boundary to connect with a westerly extension
of Laurel Road for a distance of approximately 400 feet. Construction of these roadway
segments and the Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive intersection will provide an additional
local access to the Bypass. These off-site improvements will necessitate an additional right-
of-way acquisition through the adjoining property (APN 053-060-015).

 As shown in Figure 4, the Specific Plan now requires that Country Hills Drive be
constructed between the commercial uses on the Delizia Ranch LLC property and the
residential subdivision on the Park Ridge project site. The proposed project entitlements,
including a vesting tentative map and final development plan, design review, residential
development allocation and related plans and permits may be protected through adoption of
a development agreement.

A majority of the subject property has been used historically for cattle grazing. A portion of
site closest to the State Route 4 Bypass has more recently been used for commercial
production of apples. While the physical characteristics of the project site itself are
substantially unchanged from the description presented in the 1996 EIR, the condition of
surrounding properties has changed over the past 12 years. Single family residential
development has been substantially completed on the property to the south of this site, as
contemplated in the Specific Plan, providing for the extension of Country Hills Drive from
Canada Valley Road north to the common boundary with the subject property.

Property to the north of the subject site was originally approved by the City in 2004 for
development of a 217-lot residential subdivision (Laurel Ranch). However, the Laurel
Ranch entitlements subsequently expired without recordation of a final map, and no new
project entitlement applications are currently pending. The timing for extension of Laurel
Road east across the northerly edge of the subject site to connect with the State Route 4
Bypass is therefore uncertain.



                                                                                                 7
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

The adopted Specific Plan also identifies local serving commercial uses on the south side of
future Laurel Road adjoining the subject site. The commercial property is comprised of two
separate ownerships, and will be separated by the planned extension of Country Hills Drive
to connect with Laurel Road. A neighborhood serving retail center is anticipated for the
southeast corner of future Country Hills Drive and Laurel Road, while a specialty
commercial use is expected on the smaller southwest corner. The southerly portion of the
planned commercial center site (owned by Delizia Ranch LLC) was subdivided from the
subject site several years ago. Implementation of the Park Ridge project will occur on a
phased basis as discussed below, and will include construction of Country Hills Drive and
balanced sheet grading of a portion of the planned commercial center situated to the west.
No plans are currently pending for the planned commercial center or the specialty
commercial site.

A total of 298 minimum 5,000 square foot lots are proposed (averaging 6,701 square feet),
consistent with the "Medium-Low" (RM) density land use classification in the Specific Plan,
which provides for minimum 4,000 square foot lots. The RM units have been dispersed in
the Park Ridge site plan within areas having fewer topographic constraints, consistent with
Specific Plan policy. The development plan also includes 227 minimum 6,000 square foot
lots (averaging 8,164 square feet), consistent with the "Low Density" (RL) residential
classification identified in the Specific Plan. These larger lots have been arranged in
proximity to an expanded 8.22-acre public park facility and the 25.5-acre open space
component.

The aggregate residential development shown in the Park Ridge development plan provides
for 525 units on 169.7 gross acres, or 3.1 units per gross acre. This figure is consistent
with the overall development assumptions identified in the Specific Plan, which provides for
a total of 1,322 units. The Park Ridge project would add 525 units to the 500 nearing
completion on the property to the south.

Park Ridge has been planned for construction in 7 total phases, as depicted in preliminary
form by the different colors in Figure 3. Residential Phase I includes approximately 123
homes within the southwest and south-central portions of the project site. Preliminary
project grading operations have also been planned in a phased configuration, as shown in
Figure 5, in order to provide for balancing of cut and fill operations for the Phase I residential
development. A series of "biocell" improvements are planned in the northwest, northeast,
southwest, south-central and southeast portions of the site as highlighted in blue and shown
in preliminary form in Figure 4. These improvements have been planned to provide for
detention and pre-treatment of storm water before it flows into off-site storm drains or
discharges into East Antioch Creek. Figure 4 also identifies the location of park and open
space access points, and details the placement of homes with minimum setback criteria
based on the two distinct lot product types.




                                                                                                 8
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 2: Tentative Map & Development Plan, Subdivision 8846
                                                               9
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 3: Preliminary Phasing Plan, Subdivision 8846

                                                       10
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 4: Illustrative Site Plan, Subdivision 8846
                                                     11
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 5: Preliminary Grading Phase I, Subdivision 8846

                                                          12
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


B. Relationship to Adopted Specific Plan for FUA #2
Current land use classifications and planned roadway alignments for the FUA #2 Specific
Plan are shown in Figure 7 below. The project adjoins two collector streets, Canada Valley
Road on the southwest, and Country Hills Drive on the east. It also adjoins the future
extension of an arterial street, Laurel Road, to the north. Since the initial adoption of the
Specific Plan in 1996, Canada Valley Road has been extended through the southwest
corner of the site, providing continuous access to Lone Tree Way. Country Hills Drive has
been completed from Canada Valley Road to the southeast corner of the project site, and
will be extended north through the subject property on an alignment which parallels the
State Route 4 Bypass. As called for in the Specific Plan, the proposed project has aligned
the northerly portion of Country Hills Drive between the proposed residential lots and the
planned commercial center on the Delizia Ranch LLC property. Country Hills Drive is
shown in Figure 2 as connecting to Laurel Road at the location identified in the July 2005
Specific Plan Addendum.

As shown in Figure 2, the proposed project will construct Country Hills Drive north, from its
current terminus at the southeast corner of the site, to the northerly project boundary
adjoining the future planned commercial center. Consistent with section 5.3.4 of the
Specific Plan, and as modeled in the traffic analysis (see Chapter 3.B and Appendix A),
Country Hills Drive will be improved as a two-lane collector roadway with 8-foot
bicycle/parking lanes on each side. The roadway will incorporate a raised median for
landscaping and control of left turn movements north of the planned Summit View Way
intersection (the southerly-most project intersection). As further discussed in section 3.B
below, the exact configuration of median openings and access from Country Hills Drive to
the adjoining shopping center site will be subject to further review and refinement consistent
with future detailed plans for the center. The preliminary alignment and lane configurations
for Country Hills Drive, however, will be determined with approval of the Park Ridge
development, as discussed in the Traffic Analysis in Chapter 3.B.

The internal street pattern has achieved the Specific Plan goal of affording multiple points of
access to the central open space area, including vistas and trail connections at the opened
ends of cul-de-sac bulbs, as well as a roughly 1,200 feet of single-loaded street fronting
along the east side of the open space area and park site. Primary access to the project site
will be provided from Canada Valley Road, the extension of Country Hills Drive and the
planned extension of Laurel Road, as indicated in the Specific Plan. Finally, while the
internal street pattern provides a looped connection between the east and west portions of
the site, direct crossings of the open space and park sites have been avoided. This design
maximizes the area of usable park lands and lessens potential conflicts between
pedestrians and vehicular traffic otherwise occurring between the park site and the open
space trail connections.

As noted in the preceding section, residential land use densities for the 525-unit project are
consistent with those shown in the adopted Specific Plan. Two lot sizes are indicated on the
Vesting Tentative Map for Subdivision 8846. The 227 minimum 6,000 square foot lots
would be developed on those portions of the site with greater topographical changes, along
the north and west sides of the site, and adjoining the central open space area. The
remaining 298 minimum 5,000 square foot lots are planned for the south and east portions
                                                                                             13
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

of the site. These lot products and their distribution are consistent with the classifications
shown in Figures 6 and 7. The gross project density of 3.1 units per acre is consistent with
the adopted Specific Plan and accompanying EIR analysis.

As proposed, the Park Ridge project would comply with all applicable mitigation measures
identified in the Specific Plan EIR. As discussed in Chapter 1.B, several supplemental
mitigation measures are recommended in Chapter 3.B to address the specific design,
context and timing of the proposed Park Ridge project. In addition, supplemental measures
are also recommended to minimize the otherwise less-than-significant near-term effects of
development contemplated in a maturing urban setting. Chapter 3 correlates all
recommended supplemental mitigation measures to the original EIR measures, and
discusses whether they apply to: (1) the current project context; (2) specific less-than-
significant effects of the current project; or (3) both of the foregoing issues. Please see
Section 3.B for additional analysis of consistency with detailed Specific Plan policies.




                                                                                             14
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 6: Original 1996 Specific Plan Land Use Map


                                                     15
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 7: Current Specific Plan Land Use Map
                                                     16
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


C. Environmental Context of Proposed Project
The project site and the contiguous parcels to the north remain undeveloped, twelve years
following preparation of the FUA #2 Specific Plan and supporting EIR analysis. Today, the
site adjoins a completed residential development to the west and a similar substantially
completed residential development to the south. Further south of the proposed project, a
regional retail center has been developed on the Slatten Ranch property. Additional
regional commercial uses have been developed, in accordance with the Specific Plan, to
the southeast of the subject property. East of the subject property (and the State Route 4
Bypass) the Lindsey Detention Basin has been expanded to accommodate the future peak
storm drainage flows from buildout of all land uses within the Specific Plan area as a whole.

Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass project has been completed and currently
accommodates the movement of traffic from State Route 4, southeast into adjoining Oakley
and Brentwood, with local access at Lone Tree Way. Segment 1 provides a freeway
connection between existing SR 4 and Bypass Segment 2, south of Lone Tree Way. This
connection allows traffic from the Eastern Contra Costa County communities of Brentwood,
Byron and Discovery Bay to avoid using local Antioch streets (including Hillcrest Avenue,
Lone Tree Way and Deer Valley Road) en route to Highway 4. Completion of Segment 1
has also facilitated the extension of Laurel Road to the east of the Specific Plan area,
allowing residents of Oakley to gain direct access to the Bypass. Future residents of the
Park Ridge project will be able to use Treeline Way to directly access future Laurel Road to
the north. Alternatively, they will be able to use either Canyon Ridge Way or Summit View
Way to gain access to Country Hills Drive, and travel north to future Laurel Road upon
completion of both the Country Hill Drive and Laurel Road extensions. Completion of the
Country Hills Drive and Laurel Road extensions will facilitate direct access to the State
Route 4 Bypass from the subject property and the adjoining Antioch neighborhoods. As
discussed in Section 3.B, this connection will lead to a reduction in current morning peak
hour traffic volumes moving south along Canada Valley Road to access the Bypass via
Lone Tree Way.

As one of the last remaining large-scale housing sites within this planning area and the City,
the proposed project will provide an important source of new housing units over the next
several years. Completion of this project will also provide for delivery of the only local park
facility within the Specific Plan area. The 8.22-acre park will serve the needs of residents
from the project site, as well as the adjoining neighborhoods to the north and south.

The proposed project will set aside 25.5 acres of open space which has been designed to
retain two locally prominent hilltops situated within the central portion of the site as shown in
Figures 2 and 4. The open space system will include a public trail network with connections
to local streets throughout the project, and to the neighborhood park to the south. The
project proposes to offer this open space amenity for dedication to the City of Antioch.
Burrowing owls have historically utilized properties within the Specific Plan and surrounding
areas for foraging and nesting, as discussed in the 1996 EIR7. The nearby presence of
burrowing owls has been documented through review of development on other properties in

7
 Section III.J.1, page 137 of the 1995 DEIR identifies owls and other raptors as protected under both federal
and state regulations; Mitigation Measure J3 was adopted to avoid significant impacts to these species.
                                                                                                             17
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

the vicinity of the proposed project. Six owls were observed in 2005 utilizing a complex of
nests situated along the Contra Costa Canal on the adjoining State Route 4 Bypass
property; these owls were subsequently excluded from the Bypass site prior to initiation of
site grading. A Biological Assessment, initial focused owl survey, and series of follow-up
owl surveys have been included in this Addendum, and a corresponding set of refined
mitigation measures have been prepared to ensure compliance with the standard for
avoidance of significant impacts to all such special status species, as established with the
certified FUA #2 EIR.




                                                                                               18
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 8: Parcel Map Separating Delizia & Davidon Properties
                                                               19
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



3. Environmental Setting, Impacts and Mitigation


A. Certified FEIR for the FUA #2 Specific Plan
The certified project EIR for the FUA #2 Specific Plan anticipated development of the
subject property without the need for further environmental documentation. The final
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan, adopted with the EIR certification, includes a
complete set of measures to avoid or substantially lessen the effects of implementing the
Specific Plan (including development of the subject property), with one exception. A
Statement of Overriding Considerations was adopted on May 28, 1996, as part of the EIR
certification and Specific Plan approval, finding that the benefits derived from implementing
the Specific Plan outweighed a remaining post-mitigation significant effect on regional air
quality. This original unavoidable significant impact was found to be a function of region-
wide air quality conditions, and the scale and urban intensity of the Specific Plan project.
The proposed Park Ridge project is consistent with the land uses and improvements as
analyzed for this site and the surrounding area under the Specific Plan EIR and its
subsequent addenda, and the resulting the air quality and other environmental effects of the
Park Ridge project will be no greater than those associated with the adopted Specific Plan
project.

The adopted Mitigation Measures for the FUA #2 Specific Plan are attached to this
Addendum as Appendix I. The proposed project must comply with each applicable
measure. The analysis provided in Section 3.B below confirms that the proposed project
would not differ materially in its effects on the environment from the analysis presented in
the Specific Plan EIR. Nevertheless, supplemental mitigation measures have been
prepared to augment those listed in Appendix I. These supplemental measures are
intended to address the specific circumstances and design details of the Park Ridge project
design and construction timing. These supplemental measures are not needed to reduce
any new or expanded project impacts, but rather will serve to add specificity and clarity with
respect to current regulatory standards, details, and phasing of the proposed Park Ridge
project.




                                                                                            20
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


B. Updated CEQA Documentation
(1) Traffic
The following traffic analysis is based on information developed by Fehr and Peers
Transportation Consultants (Appendix A). This analysis focuses on future circulation and traffic
flow within and adjoining the project, as well as on traffic impacts on the surrounding area
resulting from phased completion of Park Ridge. The Specific Plan EIR, prepared in 1996 was
certified based upon future growth assumptions developed in the 1990's. Although
development within the FUA #2 Specific Plan area has not substantially changed since the
certification of the EIR, the planned transportation infrastructure and traffic conditions have
changed sufficiently to warrant an updated analysis. In addition, buildout of the Specific Plan
area has taken place incrementally since 1996, without completion of all local roadway and
traffic control improvements. This study therefore includes analysis of existing traffic conditions
in the study area, as well as additional traffic generated by projects currently under construction
or expected within the next several years ("near term" projects), and other future projects
anticipated based on the City's adopted General Plan ("cumulative" projects). An inventory of
planned but not yet constructed roadway network improvements has also been prepared and
analyzed as part of the study. In addition, recent traffic forecasts and current traffic counts have
been utilized in modeling future traffic volumes8, and performing the impact analysis. This work
also includes use of data developed for Segment 1 of the Bypass, in order to estimate future
traffic volumes along Laurel Road and Country Hills Drive, and to determine the configuration of
improvements needed with completion of the project. Finally, operation of internal project
intersections, as well as streets and intersections immediately adjoining the project have been
analyzed for purposes of assessing any potential service level or safety issues.

Study Area
The proposed Project would consist of 525 dwelling units located on the south side of Laurel
Road between Canada Valley Road and Country Hills Drive in the City of Antioch. The
traffic analysis focuses on the operations of the following 18 key intersections in the vicinity
of the site. The locations of these intersections are shown in Figure 9:

1. Laurel Road/Canada Valley Road                    10. Lone Tree Way/Northbound SR 4 Bypass
2. Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive                       Ramps/Jeffery Way
3. Laurel Road/Southbound SR 4 Bypass                11. Lone Tree Way /Slatten Ranch Road
    Ramps                                            12. Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
4. Laurel Rd/Northbound SR 4 Bypass Ramps            13. Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
5. Laurel Road/Slatten Ranch Road                    14. Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
6. Laurel Road/Live Oak Avenue                       15. Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
7. Laurel Road/Empire Avenue                         16. Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
8. Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road                  17. Laurel Road/Treeline Way (With Project only)
9. Lone Tree Way/Southbound SR 4 Bypass              18. Laurel Road/Hillcrest Avenue
    Ramps

8
 The City of Antioch has authorized use of the East County Subarea Model, based on TRANSPLAN
Committee Resolution (2005-2) and consultation with TRANSPLAN and CCTA staff.
                                                                                               21
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 9: Study Area Intersection Locations

                                                     22
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Analysis Methodology
Study intersection operations were evaluated using Level of Service (LOS) calculations.
The analysis method outlined in Technical Procedures Update prepared by the Contra
Costa Transportation Authority (CCTA) (July, 2006), known as CCTALOS, was utilized. To
augment this analysis, the Transportation Research Board's 2000 Highway Capacity
Manual (HCM) method and Synchro software were also used.
Level of Service Criteria: In order to measure and describe the operation of a local
roadway network, traffic engineers and planners commonly use a grading system called
level of service (LOS) to describe intersection operations. The LOS grading system
qualitatively characterizes traffic conditions associated with varying levels of traffic. These
levels range from LOS A, indicating free-flow traffic conditions with little or no delay
experienced by motorists, to LOS F, which describes congested conditions where traffic
flows exceed design capacity, resulting in long queues and delays.
At each study intersection, traffic conditions were evaluated using the LOS methodologies
developed by the CCTA and HCM. The CCTA planning-level analysis uses various
intersection characteristics (i.e., traffic volumes, lane geometry, and signal phasing) to
estimate the volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio of an intersection. Table 1 summarizes the
relationship between the v/c ratio and LOS. HCM operation analysis uses various
intersection characteristics (i.e., traffic volumes, lane geometry, signal timing, and
pedestrian activity) to estimate the average delay (measured in seconds per vehicle)
experienced by motorists traveling through an intersection. Table 2 summarizes the
relationship between delay and LOS for signalized and unsignalized intersections.
Typically, the delay and LOS for the worse movement from the side-street is reported for
side-street stop-controlled intersections.



                               INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS (CCTA)


                             Sum of Critical
  Level of Service         Volume-to-Capacity                                       Description
                                 Ratio
                                                      Stable Flow: Very slight or no delay. No approach phase is fully
           A                       < 0.60
                                                      utilized by traffic and no vehicle waits longer than one red indication.
                                                      Stable Flow: Slight delay. An occasional approach phase is fully
           B                    0.61 - 0.70
                                                      utilized.
                                                      Stable Flow: Acceptable delay. A few drivers arriving at the end of a
           C                    0.71 - 0.80
                                                      queue may occasionally have to wait through one signal cycle.
                                                      Approaching Unstable Flow: Tolerable delay. Delays may be
           D                    0.81 - 0.90
                                                      substantial during short periods, but excessive backups do not occur.
                                                      Unstable Flow: Intolerable delay. Delay may extend through several
           E                    0.91 - 1.00
                                                      cycle lengths.

           F                       > 1.00             Forced Flow: Excessive delay.

 Source: Technical Procedures, Contra Costa Transportation Authority, 1997.


Table 1: Intersection Level of Service Definitions (CCTA)
                                                                                                                                 23
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


                              INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS
                                     (HIGHWAY CAPACITY MANUAL)

                                                                                                 Average
  Level of
                                                 Description                                   Control Delay
  Service
                                                                                                (Seconds)
Signalized Intersections

                 Operations with very low delay occurring with favorable progression and/or
      A                                                                                           < 10.0
                 short cycle length.
                 Operations with low delay occurring with good progression and/or short
      B                                                                                        > 10.0 to 20.0
                 cycle lengths.
                 Operations with average delays resulting from fair progression and/or
      C                                                                                        > 20.0 to 35.0
                 longer cycle lengths. Individual cycle failures begin to appear.

                 Operations with longer delays due to a combination of unfavorable
      D          progression, long cycle lengths, or high V/C ratios. Many vehicles stop and   > 35.0 to 55.0
                 individual cycle failures are noticeable.
                 Operations with high delay values indicating poor progression, long cycle
      E          lengths, and high V/C ratios. Individual cycle failures are frequent          > 55.0 to 80.0
                 occurrences. This is considered to be the limit of acceptable delay.
                 Operation with delays unacceptable to most drivers occurring due to over
      F                                                                                           > 80.0
                 saturation, poor progression, or very long cycle lengths.

Unsignalized Intersections

      A          Little or no delays                                                              < 10.0

      B          Short traffic delays                                                          > 10.0 to 15.0

      C          Average traffic delays                                                        > 15.0 to 25.0

      D          Long traffic delays                                                           > 25.0 to 35.0

      E          Very long traffic delays                                                      > 35.0 to 50.0

      F          Extreme traffic delays with intersection capacity exceeded                       > 50.0

Source:   Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2000


Table 2: Intersection Level of Service Definitions (Highway
Capacity Manual)

The CCTALOS methodology can produce different results than the HCM methodology. The
primary reason that the methodologies produce different results is that the CCTALOS
methodology analyzes each intersection independently as an isolated intersection and
calculates LOS based on the theoretical capacity of each movement at the intersection.
LOS in the HCM methodology is based on the delay experienced by each vehicle, which is
a function of the physical characteristics of the intersection including signal timing and
phasing.




                                                                                                                24
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Significance Criteria: Consistent with the certified Specific Plan EIR and the 2003 Antioch
General Plan EIR9, the following criteria were used to determine if the proposed Project
would have any new or expanded significant impact on the study intersections:
    ·   A significant impact occurs if any basic route intersection operations within regional
        commercial areas or within 1,000 feet of a freeway interchange (Intersections 2-5)
        deteriorate below an acceptable minimum LOS Low level E (v/c = 0.94) (GM Policy
        3.4.2.1a).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if any basic route intersection operations on other
        residential or arterial roadways (Intersections 1 and 17) deteriorate below an
        acceptable minimum LOS Mid-Range D (v/c = 0.87) (GM Policy 3.4.2.1c).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if intersection operations on regional routes of
        significance or basic intersections outside the Antioch Planning Area (Intersections 6-
        13, 14, 15, 16 and 18) deteriorate below the adopted Action Plan acceptable
        minimum LOS D or better (v/c = 0.89) to an unacceptable level E or F (GM Policy
        3.4.1.1).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if the v/c ratio at an intersection operating at an
        unacceptable level (LOS E or F) increases by more than 0.02 (2003 General Plan
        EIR).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if the average delay at an intersection operating at an
        unacceptable level (LOS E or F) increases by more than 5 seconds (2003 General
        Plan EIR).
    ·   A significant impact occurs at an unsignalized intersection if operations decline from
        an acceptable level to an unacceptable level (as defined above), and the need
        occurs for installation of a traffic signal based on the Manual on Uniform Traffic
        Control Devices (CA MUTCD) Peak Hour Signal Warrant (Warrant 3).
    ·   Operations of a roadway segment to exceed the established traffic service objective
        (TSO) standard.
    ·   Deterioration in a roadway segment that already exceeds the established TSO
        standard by increasing the roadway volume by more than one percent.

Existing Conditions

The City of Antioch provided weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 AM) and evening (4:00 to 6:00
PM) peak period intersection turning movement counts in May 2008 at the study
intersections. The existing traffic counts are provided in Appendix A. For each intersection,
the single hour with the highest traffic volumes during each count period was identified. The
peak hour volumes are presented in Table 3. The peak hour data is used as the basis for
intersection operations analysis. These counts were collected after Segment 1 of the SR 4
Bypass freeway between SR 4 and Lone Tree Way was opened for public use and account
for the resulting changes in local and regional traffic patterns. The existing lane
configurations and traffic control at the study intersections are included in Appendix A.
9
 The analysis prepared for this addendum is based on original threshold standards identified in the certified
1996 EIR for Future Urbanization Area #2, reflecting original policies contained in the 1988 Antioch General
Plan, revised as necessary to reflect the current 2003 General Plan policies and EIR significance criteria.
                                                                                                                25
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



Intersection operations were analyzed at ten of the study intersections using both the HCM
and CCTALOS methodologies. Only these ten intersections were analyzed under Existing
and Near-Term conditions because the other intersections either do not exist or the
proposed project would not add substantial amount of traffic to them under Existing and
Near-Term conditions because of the roadway network that would be completed under
Near-Term conditions.

Table 3 summarizes LOS at the study intersections, as calculated using both HCM and
CCTALOS methodologies. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are provided in
Appendices B and C for both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies, respectively. Using
either HCM or CCTALOS methodologies, the ten study intersections currently operate at
LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak hours using either the HCM or CCTALOS
methodologies.


                                                    EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                 PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE


                                                                              Peak                 HCM                 CCTALOS
  No.                      Intersection                       Control1
                                                                              Hour        Delay          LOS  2
                                                                                                                     V/C         LOS3
                                                                               AM           19            B         0.38           A
  8        Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road                     Signal
                                                                               PM           26            C         0.54           A
           Lone Tree Way/Southbound SR 4                                       AM           20            B         0.51           A
  9                                                             Signal
           Bypass Ramps                                                        PM           20            B         0.59           A
           Lone Tree Way/Northbound SR 4                                       AM           22            C         0.31           A
  10                                                            Signal
           Bypass Ramps                                                        PM           14            B         0.48           A
                                                                               AM           24            C         0.46           A
  11       Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road                     Signal
                                                                               PM           30            C         0.49           A
                                                                               AM           30            C         0.48           A
  12       Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue                          Signal
                                                                               PM           30            C         0.50           A
                                                                               AM           42            D         0.71           C
  13       Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road                       Signal
                                                                               PM           40            D         0.61           B
                                                                               AM           33            C         0.44           A
  14       Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue                       Signal
                                                                               PM           29            C         0.54           A
                                                                               AM           13            B         0.32           A
  15       Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive                     Signal
                                                                               PM           13            B         0.44           A
                                                                               AM           39            D         0.44           A
  16       Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue                 Signal
                                                                               PM           27            C         0.32           A
                                                                               AM           21            C         0.34           A
  18       Laurel Road/Hillcrest Avenue                         Signal
                                                                               PM           17            B         0.22           A
  Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
  1.    Signal = signal controlled intersection; SSS = side street stop controlled intersection.
  2.    Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual,
        Transportation Research Board, 2000.
  3.    Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Technical
        Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
  Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.



Table 3: Existing Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service


                                                                                                                                          26
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Project Trip Generation and Distribution
The proposed Park Ridge project would consist of 525 single-family dwelling units. Vehicle
trips generated by the project were estimated by applying trip generation rates from Institute
of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation (7th Edition). As summarized in Table 4, the
proposed Project is estimated to generate 394 AM peak hour trips and 530 PM peak hour
trips. Project trip distribution takes into account the location, land use, and density of other
developments within the study area and the major travel routes that serve the Project area.
Trip distribution for the Project is shown in Appendix A.


                                         PROPOSED PROJECT TRIP GENERATION


                                                                              AM Trips                 PM Trips
                                                                 Daily
                   Land Use                        Size          Trips   In     Out      Total   In      Out      Total
                                    1
         Single Family Residential                525 d.u.      5,024    98     296      394     334     196      530
 Notes: d.u. = dwelling unit
    1.   ITE Land Use Category 210 Single Family Detached Housing:
         Daily: T = 9.57 (x)
         AM: T = 0.75 (x) ; In = 25%, out = 75%
         PM: T = 1.01 (x) ; In = 63%, Out = 37%


 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Table 4: Proposed Project Trip Generation
Near-Term With and Without Project Conditions
Near-Term No Project Conditions: The Near-Term conditions represent traffic conditions
in the near future. It accounts for traffic that will be generated by projects currently under
construction or expected to be completed within the next few years in the vicinity of the
proposed project. For this analysis, traffic generated by the following projects (taken from
Appendix K) was added to the Existing Conditions volumes to estimate traffic volumes
under Near-Term No Project conditions:

    ·    Deer Valley Estates (136 single-family dwelling units)
    ·    Hidden Glen (371 single-family dwelling units)
    ·    Sand Creek Ranch (308 single-family dwelling units)
    ·    Tierra Villas (122 single-family dwelling units)
    ·    Lone Tree Landing (33,000 square feet of retail remaining)
    ·    Wal-Mart expansion (33,575 square feet of retail)
The analysis of intersection volumes under Near Term No Project conditions assumes that
the roadway network and intersection configurations under Near-Term conditions would

                                                                                                                     27
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

remain the same as the Existing conditions. Table 5 includes a summary of peak hour LOS
at the study intersection under Near-Term No Project conditions. The detailed intersection
LOS calculation sheets are provided in Appendix A to this Addendum. All study
intersections would continue to operate at LOS D or better under Near-Term No Project
conditions using either the HCM or CCTALOS methodologies.


                                                       NEAR-TERM CONDITIONS
                                                     PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE

                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                              No Project                          With Project
                                                         Peak
 No.                Intersection                Control1                HCM             CCTALOS               HCM               CCTALOS
                                                         Hour
                                                                                   2                  3                     2
                                                                   Delay     LOS        V/C     LOS       Delay    LOS          V/C    LOS32

          Lone Tree Way/Canada                             AM        21        C       0.45       A        37           D       0.59    A
 8                                               Signal
          Valley Road                                      PM        29        C       0.65       B        47           D       0.73    C
          Lone Tree Way/Southbound                         AM        19        B       0.60       B        21           C       0.65    B
 9                                               Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                                PM        24        C       0.74       C        30           C       0.81    D
          Lone Tree Way/Northbound                         AM        20        B       0.34       A        20           B       0.36    A
 10                                              Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                                PM        15        B       0.55       A        15           B       0.58    A
          Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch                      AM        21        C       0.48       A        22           C       0.49    A
 11                                              Signal
          Road                                             PM        28        C       0.55       A        28           C       0.57    A
          Lone Tree Way/Empire                             AM        31        C       0.57       A        30           C       0.62    B
 12                                              Signal
          Avenue                                           PM        33        C       0.64       B        35           C       0.70    C
          Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley                        AM        43        D       0.77       C        44           D       0.78    C
 13                                              Signal
          Road                                             PM        42        D       0.73       C        42           D       0.75    C
          Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest                          AM        36        D       0.54       A        36           D       0.55    A
 14                                              Signal
          Avenue                                           PM        35        C       0.63       B        35           D       0.66    B
          Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande                       AM        11        B       0.35       A        11           B       0.37    A
 15                                              Signal
          Drive                                            PM        13        B       0.49       A        13           B       0.50    A
          Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest                    AM        36        D       0.50       A        40           D       0.53    A
 16                                              Signal
          Avenue                                           PM        23        C       0.36       A        27           C       0.41    A
                                                           AM        19        B       0.40       A        19           B       0.41    A
 18       Laurel Road/Hillcrest Avenue           Signal
                                                           PM        14        B       0.29       A        14           B       0.30    A
     Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
     1.   Signal = signal controlled intersection.
     2.   Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual,
          Transportation Research Board, 2000.
     3.   Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Technical
          Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
     4.   The project analyzed under this scenario includes all phases of the development (i.e., 525 dwelling units).
     Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Table 5: Near Term Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service

Near-Term With Project Conditions: Trips generated by the proposed Park Ridge project
were added to the Near-Term No Project volumes to estimate the Near-Term With Project
Volumes. The Near-Term With Project conditions analysis includes all phases of the
                                                                                                                                            28
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

proposed project, totaling 525 dwelling units. This analysis assumes that the roadway
network would remain the same as the existing roadway network, and all study intersections
would continue to have the same configuration. Thus, the analysis conservatively assumes
that Laurel Road would not be extended further west from the SR 4 Bypass and the
proposed project would not connect to Laurel Road. Based on this conservative analysis,
all access for the proposed project would be to and from the south through Vista Grande
Drive and Canada Valley Road.

Table 5 also summarizes LOS results at the study intersections under Near-Term With
Project conditions using both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies. The detailed intersection
LOS calculation sheets are provided in Addendum Appendix A. Although the delay
experienced by vehicles would increase and the LOS would deteriorate under these
conservatively analyzed Near-Term With Project conditions, the study intersections would
continue to operate at LOS D or better.


Queuing on Southbound Canada Valley Road at Lone Tree Way: The Lone Tree
Way/Canada Valley Road intersection currently operates at LOS B during the AM peak
hour, and at LOS C during the PM peak hour, based on the HCM methodology. This
intersection would operate at LOS D under Near-Term With Project conditions. Since the
intersection would continue to operate at an acceptable LOS, the project would not cause a
significant impact at this intersection using the significance criteria described earlier.
However, based on the completed analysis and confirmed by field observations (see Figure
15), the queue on southbound left-turn on Canada Valley Road onto eastbound Lone Tree
Way occasionally exceeds the 170-foot left-turn pocket during both AM and PM peak hours.
Table 6 presents the 95th percentile queues on the southbound approach of the intersection
under Existing and Near-Term conditions. The detailed queuing analysis reports are
included in Addendum Appendix A. The queue is expected to increase under Near-Term
No Project conditions and would be further exacerbated by the addition of traffic generated
by the buildout of the proposed project.
The current roadway configuration and the adjacent developments do not allow for providing
an additional left-turn lane or lengthening the existing left-turn lane. However, the current
queue spillover can be alleviated by converting the exclusive southbound through-lane to a
shared through/left-turn lane (photograph Figure 15 shows the current lane configuration).
This modification to the lane configuration would require the intersection signal operation to
be converted to split phasing in the northbound and southbound directions. The pedestrian
signal phases on both the east and west sides of the intersection can still be maintained
with this modification.

As shown in Table 6, the proposed intersection reconfiguration would reduce the 95th
percentile queues on southbound Canada Valley Road under Existing and Near-Term No
Project conditions to less than the provided (existing) storage length. However, after
implementation of the proposed improvements, the 95th percentile queues under the Near-
Term With Project scenario (where development of all 525 homes in the project is
assumed), would be longer than the provided capacity on both the exclusive left-turn lane
and the shared left-turn/through lane, and queues would therefore spill back to the upstream

                                                                                            29
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

intersection. It is estimated that by reducing the scale of the proposed project by about 50
percent under these Near Term conditions (to about 270 units) the resulting peak queues on
southbound Canada Valley Road would be reduced and accommodated within the provided
storage capacity.


                           QUEUE LENGTHS AT LONE TREE WAY/CANADA VALLEY ROAD

                                                                       th                              1
                                                                     95 Percentile Queue Length (feet)
                       Storage                                                                                 Near-Term With
       Lane                          Peak       Existing Conditions          Near-Term No Project
                       Length                                                                                     Project
                                     Hour
                         (feet)                 Existing       N/S Split      Existing       N/S Split      Existing       N/S Split
                                                                       2                             2                             2
                                                Phasing        Phasing        Phasing        Phasing        Phasing        Phasing

    Southbound                        AM            50            170             50            170             50            370
                          320
     Through                          PM            70            140             70            140             70            360
    Southbound                        AM           250            160            250            160            650            260
                          170
       Left                           PM           250            140            290            140            570            250


  Note: Bold indicates queue exceeding storage length.
         th
  1.   95 percentile queue as calculated by Synchro.
  2.   This includes implementation of split phasing in the north/south direction and converting the southbound through lane to a
       shared left-turn/through lane.
  Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Table 6: Queue Lengths at Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
In the long term, new roadways would connect the project site to the north through Country
Hills Drive and Laurel Road. These roadways would allow trips generated by the project
and adjacent developments to use the new roadways to access the SR 4 Bypass freeway at
Laurel Road. As a result, the amount of traffic turning left from southbound Canada Valley
Road onto Lone Tree Way would be sufficiently reduced to accommodate the entire 525-
unit proposed project without exceeding queue length capacities. The Cumulative
conditions analysis, presented in the following section, assumes that these roadway
connections would be provided, and that the entire 525-unit proposed project would be
completed. Therefore, when the roadway connections to Laurel Road are completed, the
remaining phases of the project can be completed. The modified southbound approach of
the Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection can also be reverted back to its
current configuration, with exclusive left-turn and through lanes and protected left-turn signal
operations in the north/south directions.

In summary, the less-than-significant and temporary Existing, Near-Term No Project, and
Near-Term With Project queue length effects at the Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
intersection may be further mitigated, and the intersection would continue to operate at an
acceptable LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak hours, subject to implementation
of the following measure:



                                                                                                                                    30
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 1 (Augments EIR Traffic Mitigation
Measure III.B.5c to minimize less-than-significant temporary impacts at Lone Tree
Way/Canada Valley Road Intersection):
(1.a) Prior to recordation of a first final map within the project, the developer shall provide for
completion of the following improvements to the Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
intersection, as directed by the City Engineer: (1) conversion of the exclusive southbound
Canada Valley Road through lane to a shared left/though lane; (2) implementation of signal
modifications to accommodate split phasing in the north/south direction.

(1.b) Prior to issuance of the 271st residential building permit, the Country Hills Drive to
Laurel Road eastbound connection shall be completed, facilitating access to Bypass
Segment 1.

(1.c) Prior to issuance of the 271st residential building permit, the modified southbound
approach of the Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection shall be reverted back to
its current configuration, with exclusive left-turn and through lanes and protected left-turn
signal operations in the north/south directions.


Pedestrian Crossing at the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View
Way intersection: Canada Valley Road is designated as a collector by the City of Antioch.
The roadway has a design speed of 45 miles per hour (mph) and a posted speed limit of 30
mph, which is currently under consideration for an increase to 35 mph. As a matter of
policy, Antioch does not install stop signs on collectors in order to maintain efficient traffic
flow.
Currently, the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View Way intersection
provides three approaches. Only the eastbound Vista Grande Drive approach is stop-
controlled. The westbound Pinnacle View Way approach would be completed as part of the
project and would provide access to the project. The Carmen Dragon Elementary School
and Meadow Estates Creek Park are located about one-quarter mile west of this
intersection on Vista Grande Drive. Pedestrians must cross Canada Valley Road at this
intersection in order to access these uses from the project site. However, the intersection
does not currently provide any protected pedestrian crossings and the somewhat high
vehicle speeds on Canada Valley Road may deter pedestrians from walking.
Based on traffic volume forecasts developed for this analysis, the intersection is not
expected to satisfy CA MUTCD peak hour intersection volume signal warrants after
completion of the project (See Addendum Appendix A). The intersection is also not
expected to satisfy the CA MUTCD pedestrian volume signal warrant. Thus, conventional
signalization of this intersection is not recommended at this time. However, periodic
monitoring of vehicular and pedestrian volumes after the completion of the project should be
considered to determine if the intersection would satisfy any additional CA MUTCD signal
warrants in the future.
Since neither conventional signalization nor all-way stops are not recommended at this
intersection, the following optional pedestrian crossing improvements are presented as
methods to improve driver awareness of pedestrians:

                                                                                                31
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

·   High Visibility Crosswalks ­Crosswalks with different striping, patterns, or pavement
    material that increase the visibility of a crosswalk. They are often accompanied by other
    enhancements such as in-crosswalk signage, or flashing beacons.




Figure 10: High Visibility Crosswalks

·   In-crosswalk Signage ­ (CA MUTCD Sign R1-6) Signage that is typically installed in the
    roadway median or center striping at unsignalized intersections to remind drivers of
    pedestrian right-of-way in a crosswalk. They are usually manufactured with flexible
    material to not damage vehicles.




Figure 11: In-Crosswalk Signage

·   Flashing Beacons/Signs ­ These are overhead or side mounted signs or beacons that
    are installed at and/or in advance of a crosswalk, and are actively or passively activated
    by pedestrians crossing the roadway. They typically rest on dark (unlit) and are only
                                                                                             32
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

   activated when pedestrians are present to warn vehicles on the major approach of the
   roadway. When activated, they regularly flash or stutter amber light to capture driver
   attention.




Figure 12: Flashing Beacons/Signs


                                                                                            33
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

·   In-Pavement Warning Lights ­ These are pavement markers lining both sides of a
    crosswalk, oftentimes containing an amber LED strobe-light. These are manually or
    passively activated by pedestrians and the strobe-lights provide a dynamic visual cue to
    drivers. However, their visibility deceases during periods such as sunrise/sunset and
    high congestion. The in-pavement warning lights can be combined with flashing
    beacons to further increase effectiveness.




Figure 13: In-Pavement Warning Lights




                                                                                           34
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

·   HAWK Signals (High Intensity Activated Crosswalks) ­ These are also known as a
    pedestrian hybrid signals. This is a special type of pedestrian activated signal used to
    assist pedestrian crossing by warning and controlling traffic at an unsignalized
    intersection. When not activated, the signal is dark. The HAWK signal is activated by a
    pedestrian push button. The overhead signal begins flashing yellow and then solid
    yellow, advising drivers to prepare to stop. The signal then displays a solid red and
    shows pedestrians a "Walk" indication. Finally, an alternating flashing red signal ["wig-
    wag"] indicates that motorists may proceed when safe, after coming to a full stop. The
    pedestrian is shown a flashing "Don't Walk" with a countdown indicating the time left to
    cross." The side-street movements would continue to be stop-controlled and are not
    controlled by the HAWK signal. The photos in Figure 14 show a HAWK signal in its
    various operation phases. These signals have been implemented in Tuscan, Arizona
    and British Colombia and are effective at enhancing pedestrian safety at locations with
    high vehicle speeds or volumes where normal signal warrants are not satisfied.
    Parameters for design and installation of HAWK signals are proposed to be included in
    the 2009 Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD).




Figure 14: HAWK Signal


                                                                                            35
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Many of the tools discussed above can be used by themselves or in combination with each
other to enhance pedestrian safety and encourage walking at the Vista Grande
Drive/Canada Valley Road/ Pinnacle View Way intersection. Based on the significance
criteria presented earlier, the proposed project would not result in a significant impact at this
intersection. However, sustained higher vehicle speeds on Canada Valley Road, together
with a greater potential for pedestrian usage at this intersection, could inhibit the potential
for pedestrian access to nearby park and school facilities unless supplemental mitigation is
provided. This less-than-significant impact may be reduced through implementation of the
following:



Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 2 (Augments EIR Traffic Mitigation
Measure III.B.15 to minimize less-than-significant impact to pedestrian circulation at Vista
Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View Way Intersection): The City shall select
an appropriate improvement strategy to enhance pedestrian safety and encourage walking
at the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View Way intersection, to be
implemented by the project sponsor prior to issuance of the first residential building permit.
The strategy shall consist of installation of one or more of the following improvements to
warn drivers on Canada Valley Road of the presence of pedestrians: (a) High Visibility
Crosswalk; (b) In-Crosswalk Signage; (c) Flashing Beacons/Signs; (d) In-Pavement
Warning Lights; or (e) HAWK Signal.



Cumulative Conditions

The analysis of Cumulative No Project and Cumulative With Project conditions are
described below.


Cumulative No Project Conditions: The roadway network used for the Cumulative
conditions analysis consists of roadway improvements expected to be completed by 2025.
These assumptions are consistent with previously completed environmental documents in
the area. Major roadway improvements in the vicinity of the project assumed for this
analysis include the following:

·   Completion of Segment 2 of the SR 4 Bypass as a four-lane freeway between Lone Tree
    Way and Balfour Road.

·   Extension of Laurel Road from its current terminus just west of the SR 4 Bypass to
    Hillcrest Avenue.

·   Extension of Country Hills Drive north to Laurel Road.

·   Extension of Slatten Ranch Road from its current terminus just north of Lone Tree Way
    parallel to SR 4 Bypass.

                                                                                              36
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Lane configurations and traffic control at the study intersections assumed for the Cumulative
conditions analysis are presented on Addendum Appendix A.

The Cumulative condition represents the buildout of the City of Antioch General Plan,
expected in year 2025. The traffic forecasts used in this analysis were developed based on
the CCTA East County Travel Demand Model as modified for the City of Antioch General
Plan Update in 2003. Since the Cumulative traffic volume forecasts include the buildout of
the entire 525-unit proposed project, the Cumulative No Project intersection volumes were
calculated by subtracting the traffic generated by the project from the Cumulative
intersection turning movement forecasts. The Cumulative No Project intersection volumes
are presented in Addendum Appendix A.

Table 7 summarizes peak hour LOS at the study intersections under Cumulative No Project
conditions. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are provided in Appendix A.
The Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would operate at LOS E during the PM
peak hour using either HCM or CCTALOS methodologies. All other study intersections
would continue to operate at LOS D or better under Cumulative No Project conditions using
either the HCM or CCTALOS methodologies.


Cumulative With Project Conditions: Trips generated by the completed project (525
units) were added to the Cumulative No Project volumes to estimate the Cumulative With
Project Volumes also shown in Table 7. This analysis assumes that the roadway network
would remain the same as the Cumulative No Project conditions network. In contrast to the
Near-Term conditions, the proposed project would be connected to Laurel Road in the north
and trips generated by the project and other nearby neighborhoods could use the Laurel
Road Interchange to access the freeway system.

Table 7 summarizes LOS results at the study intersections under Cumulative With Project
conditions using both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies. The detailed intersection LOS
calculation sheets are provided in Appendix A. Based on both methodologies, all study
intersections, except the Laurel Road/Treeline Way and Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
intersections, would operate at acceptable LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak
hours.
The side-street stop-controlled Laurel Road/Treeline Way intersection would operate at LOS
F during the AM and PM peak hours, based on the HCM methodology. However, the
intersection serves low traffic volumes and would not meet the CA MUTCD peak hour
volume signal warrant. Thus, the proposed project would not cause an impact at this
intersection because the significance criterion for unsignalized intersections requires the
intersection to operate at an unacceptable LOS and satisfy the CA MUTCD peak hour
signal warrant.

Under Cumulative No Project Conditions, and given the current turn lane striping
configuration, the Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would operate at LOS D
using the HCM methodology and LOS A using the CCTALOS methodology during the AM
peak hour. During the PM peak hour, the modeling analysis shows that the same
intersection would operate at unacceptable LOS E using either HCM or CCTALOS
                                                                                           37
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

methodologies. The addition of Project traffic would add more than 3 seconds of delay
using the HCM methodology, unless the turn lane configurations at this intersection were
modified. Absent such refined mitigation, the project's contribution to cumulative traffic
would have a significant impact. This finding is consistent with the analysis completed for
the 1996 Specific Plan EIR10, and reflects the same mitigation measure as previously
recommended for an earlier project in 200211. The project's contribution is therefore not
considered a new impact. Through implementation of the following augmentation to original
mitigation measure III.B.6f, the Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would continue
to operate at an acceptable level:



Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 3 (Augments EIR Traffic Mitigation
Measure III.B.6f to optimize improvements and enhance efficiency of Lone Tree
Way/Hillcrest Avenue Intersection): Reconfigure the southbound Hillcrest Avenue approach
to Lone Tree Way (currently one exclusive right-turn lane, one through lane, one shared
through and left-turn lane, and one exclusive left-turn lane) to an exclusive right-turn lane,
one through lane, and two exclusive left-turn lanes, and providing a second left-turn lane on
the eastbound Lone Tree Way approach. The Project shall contribute its fair share toward
the construction of this mitigation measure12. Implementation of this measure would
improve Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection operations to acceptable conditions
(LOS C with 31 seconds of delay during the AM peak hour and LOS D with 46 seconds of
delay during the PM peak hour using the HCM methodology and LOS A with v/c of 0.60
during the AM peak hour and LOS C with v/c of 0.75 during the PM peak hour using the
CCTALOS methodology.)




10
  Specific Plan EIR Mitigation Measure B6 calls for the addition of exclusive southbound and westbound right
turn lanes at this intersection.
11
   Arcadia Mixed Use Planned Development EIR Traffic Analysis, Fehr & Peers Associates. March 2002.
12
   City staff report that Measure 3 would be funded and built through currently planned assessment district
work, and may therefore be implemented in advance of the proposed project.
                                                                                                            38
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



                                CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                           No Project                           With Project
                                                         Peak
 No.               Intersection              Control1              HCM             CCTALOS                 HCM                CCTALOS
                                                         Hour
                                                                              2                    3                     2
                                                                Delay LOS         V/C       LOS        Delay    LOS          V/C        LOS3
          Laurel Road/Canada Valley                      AM      19       B       0.51        A         21           C       0.53        A
 1                                            Signal
          Road                                           PM      18       B       0.48        A         21           C       0.52        A
          Laurel Road/Country Hills                      AM      32       C       0.56        A         37           D       0.68        B
 2                                            Signal
          Drive                                          PM      26       C       0.48        A         30           C       0.57        A
          Laurel Road/Southbound                         AM      17       B       0.52        A         17           B       0.58        A
 3                                            Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                              PM      16       B       0.51        A         15           B       0.60        A
          Laurel Road/Northbound                         AM      7        A       0.53        A          9           A       0.57        A
 4                                            Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                              PM      10       A       0.63        B         12           B       0.67        B
          Laurel Road/Slatten Ranch                      AM      29       C       0.69        A         28           C       0.69        B
 5                                            Signal
          Road                                           PM      35       D       0.75        C         35           C       0.76        C
                                                         AM      16       B       0.44        A         16           B       0.44        A
 6        Laurel Road/Live Oak Ave            Signal
                                                         PM      27       C       0.42        A         24           C       0.43        A
                                                         AM      27       C       0.55        A         28           C       0.56        A
 7        Laurel Road/Empire Ave              Signal
                                                         PM      32       C       0.52        A         31           C       0.55        A
          Lone Tree Way/Canada                           AM      25       C       0.57        A         26           C       0.60        A
 8                                            Signal
          Valley Road                                    PM      36       D       0.72        C         38           D       0.78        C
          Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4                          AM      23       C       0.57        A         23           C       0.58        A
 9                                            Signal
          Bypass Ramps                                   PM      24       C       0.79        C         24           C       0.80        C
          Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4                          AM      9        A       0.54        A         10           A       0.54        A
 10                                           Signal
          Bypass Ramps                                   PM      16       B       0.71        C         16           B       0.71        C
          Lone Tree Way/Slatten                          AM      45       D       0.72        C         45           D       0.72        C
 11                                           Signal
          Ranch Road                                     PM      39       D       0.79        C         40           D       0.80        C
          Lone Tree Way/Empire                           AM      38       D       0.61        B         38           D       0.61        B
 12                                           Signal
          Avenue                                         PM      24       C       0.57        A         24           C       0.57        A
          Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley                      AM      49       D       0.84        D         50           D       0.85        D
 13                                           Signal
          Road                                           PM      53       D       0.88        D         55           D       0.89        D
          Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest                        AM      42       D       0.60        A         45           D       0.62        B
 14                                           Signal
          Avenue                                         PM      58       E       0.93        E         66           E       0.94        E
          Lone Tree Way/Vista                            AM      26       C       0.56        A         26           C       0.57        A
 15                                           Signal
          Grande Drive                                   PM      38       D       0.84        D         39           D       0.85        D
          Country Hills Drive/                           AM     19       B        0.42        A         19           B       0.42        A
 16                                           Signal
          Hillcrest Avenue                               PM     22       C        0.53        A         22           C       0.54        A
                                                         AM     N/A     N/A       N/A        N/A        67           F       N/A        N/A
 17       Laurel Road/Treeline Way                SSS2
                                                         PM     N/A     N/A       N/A        N/A        68           F       N/A        N/A
          Laurel Road/Hillcrest                          AM     40       D        0.85        D         40           D       0.85        D
 18                                           Signal
          Avenue                                         PM     52       D        0.87        D         54           D       0.88        D
 Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
 1.    Signal = signal controlled intersection.
 2.    Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation
       Research Board, 2000.
 3.    Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Technical
       Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
 4.    The project analyzed under this scenario includes all phases of the development (i.e., 525 dwelling units).
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Table 7: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour Level of Service
                                                                                                                                             39
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009



Queuing on Westbound Laurel Road at Country Hills Drive: The modeling analysis
assumes that a single left-turn lane will be provided under Cumulative conditions from
westbound Laurel Road onto southbound Country Hills Drive. As shown in Table 7, the
Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive intersection would operate at acceptable LOS D or better
during both AM and PM peak hours under Cumulative With Project conditions using either
HCM or CCTALOS methodologies. However, it is estimated that the close spacing of the
Laurel Road/Southbound SR 4 Bypass Ramps intersection to the east limits the storage
space available for the future left-turn lane on westbound Laurel Road onto southbound
Country Hills Drive to about 250 feet. Based on the completed analysis, the 95th percentile
queue under Cumulative With Project conditions (including buildout of the entire 525-unit
project) would be about 300 feet during the PM peak hour. Thus, the queue has a potential
to occasionally spill out of the left-turn pocket and block traffic in the through lane during the
peak hours. Despite this occasional excess queue length, the intersection would continue
to operate at LOS D or better, and the queue would clear at the end of each signal cycle.
This less-than-significant impact would not occur with completion of the first 50 percent (of
the project. The remaining phases of the project could be completed, and the queue length
of the left-turn movement onto southbound Country Hills Drive could be contained within the
available storage space, through implementation of the following supplemental measure:



Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 4 (Augments EIR Traffic Mitigation
Measure III.B.11 to minimize less-than-significant impact associated with turn movements at
Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive intersection):
(4.a) Prior to issuance of the 271st residential building permit in the project, two left-turn
lanes shall be constructed on westbound Laurel Road at the southbound Country Hills Drive
intersection. This improvement will reduce the 95th percentile queue on westbound Laurel
Road to about 150 feet for each of the left-turn lanes, and reduce the likelihood that queues
would spillover the left-turn pocket.

(4.b) The dual left-turn lanes from westbound Laurel Road will require construction of a
second receiving lane on southbound Country Hills Drive. The second lane will need to be
approximately 300 feet in length before transitioning back to a single travel lane.




Design of Country Hills Drive: Figure 2 shows the project providing for construction of
Country Hills Drive from its current terminus at the southeasterly corner of the site to the
northerly project boundary, approximately 300 feet south of Laurel Road. Extension of this
collector street further north to Laurel Road would normally occur concurrently with
dedication of the remaining right-of-way through the adjoining shopping center property.
However, Mitigation Measure 1 requires that the Country Hills Drive to Laurel Road
eastbound connection be completed to facilitate access to Bypass Segment 1 prior to
issuance of the 271st residential building permit for the project. The project sponsor will be
required to complete these off-site improvements in order to avoid Near Term impacts at the
                                                                                                40
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Canada Valley Road/Lone Tree Way intersection, in the event that the shopping center
property does not develop first.

The project Vesting Tentative Map (Figure 2) does not provide a detailed analysis of lane
configurations or right-of-way widths for the off-site extension of Country Hills Drive
connecting with Laurel Road. Traffic modeling conducted for this analysis shows the need
to accommodate both a dedicated left-turn lane and a straight/right-turn lane on northbound
Country Hills Drive approaching Laurel Road. As provided for in Mitigation Measure 4, a
second southbound merge lane will be needed on Country Hills Drive for a distance of
approximately 300 feet south of Laurel Road, in order to accommodate the dual left-turn
lanes from westbound Laurel Road. These additional turning and merging lanes will occur
to the north of the project boundary, and will require timely acquisition of the necessary
right-of-way. A small section of retaining wall may be needed below the adjoining project
lots, in order to properly accommodate transitioning of two southbound lanes into one.

Modeling of both Near Term and Cumulative traffic volumes further south along Country
Hills Drive indicates that the roadway will function properly as proposed and anticipated in
the Specific Plan, with a total of two travel lanes and two bicycle/parking lanes. A center
median has been included in the project design, consistent with the Specific Plan, to
accommodate stacking and protected left-turn movements into and out of the project at
Summit View Way and Canyon Ridge Way.

Figure 2 identifies a median opening in Country Hills Drive opposite Canyon Ridge Way to
accommodate access to the project and the future shopping center. A limited second
shopping center access on Country Hills Drive (right-in / right-out with no median break) is
identified approximately 300 feet south of Laurel Road. Direct access to the shopping
center from Laurel Road is not likely to be allowed, due to the limited distance between the
Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive intersection and the Bypass on- and off-ramps. Depending
on overall square footage and mix of uses within the shopping center, it may be advisable to
accommodate an additional mid-block median opening (possibly with signalization) for
access to the shopping center. Absent such a central point of access, the shopping center
might otherwise generate an unacceptably high number of U-turn movements at both
Canyon Ridge Way and Laurel Road, leading to both safety issues and level of service
declines at the two affected intersections. While this is not an issue precipitated by the
proposed project, it would be advisable to plan the median and roadway cross-section
improvements in such a manner as to readily accommodate all necessary openings in the
future. These issues will be addressed in the preparation and approval of required
improvement plans for Country Hills Drive.


CCTA Traffic Service Objectives Analysis

The East County Action Plan for Routes of Regional Significance (CCTA, 2000) establishes
traffic service objectives (TSOs) for routes of regional significance in eastern Contra Costa
County. These routes consist of freeways and major arterials that provide region wide
connectivity.


                                                                                               41
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

One TSO used to measure freeway and arterial operations is peak hour Delay Index. Delay
Index is defined as the ratio of the peak hour congested travel time to free-flow travel time
on each roadway segment. For example, a Delay Index of 2.0 means that it takes twice as
long to travel a particular segment during the peak commute hour than during non-commute
hours when traffic moves at free-flow speeds. Objectives for relevant routes include a Delay
Index of 2.5 for the SR 4 freeway and 2.0 for surface arterials.

Operations along routes of regional significance under Cumulative No Project and
Cumulative With Project conditions were evaluated using the Delay Index measure. The
Delay Index was calculated using results from the latest CCTA countywide travel demand
model. As shown in Table 8, all roadway segments will satisfy their TSO under both
Cumulative condition scenarios.




Figure 15: Photograph of Canada Valley Road at Lone Tree Way



                                                                                          42
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                                                  CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                                  DELAY INDEX SUMMARY1

                                                                      No Project                             With Project
          Roadway                   Peak                                      Southbound                             Southbound
                                                TSO        Northbound                             Northbound
          Segment                   Hour                                          or                                     or
                                                          or Eastbound                           or Eastbound
                                                                              Westbound                              Westbound
SR4 between A St. and                AM          2.5            1.0                 1.3                1.0                  1.3
Hillcrest Ave.                       PM          2.5            1.6                 1.1                1.6                  1.1
SR4 between Hillcrest and            AM          2.5            1.1                 1.2                1.1                  1.2
SR160                                PM          2.5            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
SR4 Bypass between                   AM          2.5            1.2                 1.1                1.2                  1.1
SR160 and Laurel Rd                  PM          2.5            1.4                 1.0                1.4                  1.0
SR4 Bypass between
                                     AM          2.5            1.0                 1.3                1.0                  1.3
Laurel Rd and Lone Tree
                                     PM          2.5            1.2                 1.0                1.2                  1.0
Way
SR4 Bypass between Lone
                                     AM          2.5            1.0                 1.3                1.0                  1.3
Tree Way and Sand Creek
                                     PM          2.5            1.2                 1.0                1.2                  1.0
Rd
Hillcrest Ave. between SR 4          AM          2.0            1.1                 1.0                1.1                  1.0
and Deer Valley Rd.                  PM          2.0            1.0                 1.3                1.0                  1.4
Hillcrest Ave. between Deer          AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Valley Rd. and Laurel Rd.            PM          2.0            1.0                 1.1                1.0                  1.1
Hillcrest Ave. between SR 4          AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
and Deer Valley Rd.                  PM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Laurel Rd. between Hillcrest         AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Ave. and SR4 Bypass                  PM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Laurel Rd. between SR4               AM          2.0            1.0                 1.2                1.0                  1.2
Bypass and Main St.                  PM          2.0            1.2                 1.0                1.2                  1.0
Lone Tree Way between
                                     AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Deer Valley Rd. and
                                     PM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.1                  1.0
Hillcrest Ave.
Lone Tree Way between
                                     AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Hillcrest Ave. and SR4
                                     PM          2.0            1.1                 1.0                1.1                  1.0
Bypass
Lone Tree Way between
                                     AM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
SR4 Bypass and Fairview
                                     PM          2.0            1.0                 1.0                1.0                  1.0
Ave
  Note: Bold indicates roadway segments exceeding the TSO.
  1.   Delay Index defined as ratio of peak hour congested to free-flow travel time and as estimated by the CCTA Countywide Travel
       Demand.
  Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.



Table 8: Cumulative Conditions Delay Index Summary




                                                                                                                                     43
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


(2) Noise

The Park Ridge residences will adjoin future Country Hills Drive, and the recently completed
State Route 4 Bypass. According to the noise analysis completed as part of the Specific
Plan EIR, the closest row of homes west of Country Hills Drive and south of the shopping
center site, may be exposed to an unacceptable level of roadway noise. In order to reduce
the noise exposure to outdoor living areas of homes, and meet the goals of the Specific
Plan and General Plan, the project site plan (Figure 1) separates most of the planned
residences from Country Hills Drive (and the Bypass) through construction of Bay Laurel
Way and a series of water quality basins. Planned homes situated to the north of Summit
View Way and east of the water quality basins are sufficiently removed from the travel lanes
of the Bypass as to not be significantly affected by roadway noise exposure.

Those homes south of Summit View Way and west of Bay Laurel Way and the water quality
basins have been raised between 5 feet and 20 feet above the adjoining street grades along
Country Hills Drive. All but three of the lots situated south of Summit View Way, closest to
the travel lanes of the Bypass, are oriented with their front elevations facing east toward Bay
Laurel Way and the Bypass, thereby buffering the more sensitive rear yard living spaces.
Remaining lots 12, 56 and 115 are designed to provide supplemental noise buffering in the
form of heavy wooden fences or sound walls along the exterior side yards adjoining Country
Hills Drive.

In contrast, the subdivision directly to the south of the project site currently utilizes a uniform
masonry wall at the westerly edge of the Country Hills Drive right-of-way. This wall adjoins
the back yards of homes closest to Country Hills Road and the Bypass (see Figure 16). The
homes in this portion are situated closer to the Bypass than those planned within the Park
Ridge development.

As shown in Figure 17, the original Specific Plan EIR anticipated exterior sound levels
approaching 70 dBA (CNEL) at the front yards of planned residences located along the
eastern edge of the project site (e.g. facing Bay Laurel Way). EIR Mitigation Measure D2b
calls for use of a combination of open space buffering, grade separations, and a 6-foot wall,
in order to reduce the exterior sound level for outdoor living areas of residences closest to
the Bypass. The outdoor living area exposure standard was originally set at 60 dBA
(CNEL), but was later adjusted through adoption of an amendment to the controlling
Environmental Hazards section of the Antioch General Plan. This amendment, as adopted
by the City Council on February 8, 2005 (see Appendix J) revised the acceptable maximum
outdoor living area exposure within the Specific Plan area to 65 dBA (CNEL) for outdoor
living areas associated with residences adjacent to the Bypass.

The proposed Park Ridge project is currently obligated to meet the 65 dBA (CNEL)
performance standard based on application of Mitigation Measure III.D.2a. There is a
possibility that actual noise levels will be less than originally anticipated, due to: (1) the
greater horizontal and vertical separation of planned residences in Park Ridge from the
Bypass travel lanes than originally anticipated in the Specific Plan EIR; and (2) use of
special travel lane surface materials used along this segment of the Bypass. Therefore, the
65 dBA (CNEL) standard may be satisfied by the current project design.
                                                                                                44
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Addendum Mitigation Measure 5 (below) requires verification of compliance with this
standard through supplemental testing prior to recordation of a final map for this portion of
the project. Should supplemental noise reduction be necessary, the noise standard may be
fulfilled by providing a 6-foot high sound wall along the west side of Country Hills Drive,
south of Summit View Way, where warranted. The potential for exposure to such
unacceptable noise levels is therefore not a new impact; compliance with Supplemental
Mitigation Measure 5 provides updated direction for achieving consistency with original
Specific Plan EIR Measure III.D.2a, based on current City standards.




Figure 16: Example Masonry Wall to Reduce Noise Levels


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 5 (Refines EIR Noise Mitigation Measure
III.D.2a to reduce outdoor noise exposure associated with the State Route 4 Bypass): An
acoustical study shall be prepared prior to the filing of improvement plans for project Phases
III and V, for review and approval by the City Engineer (as basis for exemption from the wall
construction requirement of Measure D2a), demonstrating that the exterior noise levels for
outdoor living areas of those lots south of Summit View Way and adjoining Country Hills
Drive does not exceed 65 dBA (CNEL).




                                                                                            45
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 17: Specific Plan EIR Noise Forecast
                                                     46
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

(3) Open Space, Trail and Grading Designs

The Specific Plan identifies the ridge top which extends through the central portion of the
subject property as an important open space resource, because it helps to define a sense of
"place" in the community, and affords unobstructed views of Mt. Diablo to the east, the San
Joaquin River to the northeast, and agricultural lands to the southeast. Recognizing the
principal value of the ridge top to support hiking and viewing, the Specific Plan suggests that
the open space system containing the ridge "should be limited to a width, adequate to
ensure unobstructed views from the ridge to key points of interest." In furtherance of this
goal, the Specific Plan establishes policies to guide grading design, improve a public trail
system, encourage use of native landscape materials in disturbed areas, and limit the
placement of buildings so as not to interfere with views from the ridge top trail.
The proposed project has responded to these policies by setting aside 25.5 acres which
contain the principal ridgeline on the site. The highest points along the northerly portion of
this ridgeline reach elevations 235', 240' and 249'. The preliminary grading design for the
proposed project preserves these high points without alteration, while the surrounding side
slopes and lower points to the south along the open space system would be reshaped. The
proposed 8.22-acre neighborhood park has been positioned at the southerly terminus of the
ridge top open space, and would be sheet-graded with a cross-slope of approximately 2%,
in order to accommodate play fields and other active recreational amenities.
The project design aligns residential streets and abutting lots to conform to the base
elevation of the open space system. Two abutting cul-de-sac streets (Shell Ridge Court and
Treeline Court) terminate at the base of the open space system, affording views into the hill
and access for trail connections. In addition, Sierra Trail Way loops through the
neighborhood on the east side of the open space, and extends along a roughly 1,200-foot
long section of the open space and adjoining neighborhood park site. This single-loaded
street section facilitates sweeping views of the park and open space system, and promotes
convenient access to facilities.

The preliminary grading design identifies large cut areas at the base of the hill within the
open space system north of the neighborhood park site. These cuts are contour-graded
with maximum slopes of 3:1 adjoining rear yard areas, and maximum 4:1 slopes adjoining
single-loaded public streets facing onto the open space system. The proposed cut slopes
are rounded as they daylight to natural grade below the highpoints along the ridgeline. The
project grading design shown in Figure 2 achieves the Specific Plan goal of preserving the
ridgeline as a defining visual amenity where trail improvements can lead hikers to enjoy
sweeping views of the surrounding community. The 3:1 cut slopes shown at the base of
the hill in the project grading design transition to natural topography at varying distances
beyond the rear yard boundaries. This proposed grading approach deviates from the typical
grading detail contained in the Specific Plan (Figure 13), in that very little of the cut slopes
are contained within the rear yards of private lots. Additionally, the steepest cut slopes
behind homes are held to 3:1, whereas the Specific Plan accommodates up to a 2:1 cut at
these locations where the steeper cuts could be partially screened from public view by the
adjoining residential buildings. Because of its opened views from abutting cul-de-sac bulbs
and fronting single-loaded streets, the proposed project design has avoided use of artificial-
appearing 2:1 rear yard cuts. This refinement would not conflict with the Specific Plan's
principal objective of transitioning a contoured cut to avoid grading of the higher ridge top.
                                                                                             47
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 18: ELTSP Open Space Grading Policy Exhibit*
*Original Specific Plan Figures 8.1b and 8.1c

The proposed project design involves substantial earthwork volumes, resulting in large cut
and fill areas. Project grading is also expected to be phased, in accordance with Figures 3
and 5. As shown in Figure 2, the preliminary balanced grading design includes the possible
placement of fill on the adjoining Delizia Ranch LLC property and remaining northerly
portion of the planned commercial center, in order to establish a commercial pad elevation
above the Laurel Road south-bound on-ramp to the Bypass. A boundary line adjustment
between the Park Ridge, Delizia Ranch LLC, and Nunn properties is contemplated to
facilitate optimized use of the graded commercial site for future development. Right-of-way
acquisition from the project site and each of these adjoining properties will be required in
order to provide for completion of Country Hills Drive and the connecting segment of Laurel
Road.

Alternatively, pad grading of the adjoining commercial site may be deferred at the election of
the affected property owners. If sheet grading of the adjoining commercial site is deferred,
earthwork will remain balanced on the project site, and roadway grading for Country Hills
Drive and the connecting segment of Laurel Road will remain integrated with the project.
Such deferred grading of the commercial site would result in creation of a temporary
transitional slope bank below Country Hills Drive, which would daylight to natural grade at a
point above the Bypass on-ramp.



                                                                                           48
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

As outlined in Section 1B above, the current Specific Plan requires that Country Hills Drive be
aligned as shown in Figure 7, in order to provide adequate separation between its intersection
at Laurel Road and the Bypass southbound on- and off-ramps. Proposed development plan
Figure 2 reflects this alignment, while setting street grades along Country Hills Drive to
conform to the established design speed for this collector roadway. The resulting grading
design reflects a continuous padded commercial site northeast of the roadway which extends
across the entire Delizia Ranch LLC property, to integrate with the balance of the planned
commercial site. The combined commercial site is consistent with Figure 7, and provides an
efficient physical arrangement for accommodation of neighborhood shopping and services
without isolated free-standing pads (as identified in the previous Specific Plan design shown
in Figure 6). Grading work proposed for the Park Ridge project would place the commercial
site pad at an elevation consistent with the adjoining Country Hills Drive street grade, and
between 25 and 40 feet above the adjoining freeway on-ramp to the east. Although the pad
configuration for the graded Delizia Ranch LLC site narrows at the north and south ends, its
overall efficiency, when considered in combination with the balance of the commercial site to
the north, is improved over that contemplated in the original Specific Plan design. This off-site
grading work, if implemented, would improve neighborhood access and visibility of future
commercial uses, in comparison to the pattern of development which would have resulted
from the previous Specific Plan design.

The preliminary grading work contemplated in Figure 2 has been evaluated through a design-
level geotechnical investigation prepared by Berlogar Geotechnical Consultants13. The
geotechnical investigation includes a review of two previously completed studies for the site,
and covers the entire scope of contemplated grading operations and planned construction.
Cut and fill depths approaching a maximum of 70 feet have been evaluated through
exploration of surface and subsurface conditions utilizing a series of test pits, and borings.
Soil samples were evaluated using laboratory testing to identify characteristics and potential
for shrink-swell potential, shear strength and other design parameters. Existing constraints,
including the presence of a landslide within the northeast portion of the site, groundwater
conditions and potential effects of seismic activity were also analyzed in the current
geotechnical investigation. While each of these potentially significant issues was found to be
reduced to a less-than-significant level through implementation of EIR Mitigation Measures
III.E.1, 2 and 3, the focused Berlogar investigation provides a set of specific design
recommendations and mitigation measures which provide additional detail and effectiveness.
These supplemental recommendations are therefore included by reference in this Addendum
as Supplemental Measure 6, in order to assure compliance at the time of construction.


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 6 (Refines EIR Geology, Soils and
Seismicity Mitigation Measures III.E.1, 2 and 3 to assure Implementation of Geotechnical
Report): All site preparation and grading operations, and subsequent foundation, concrete
slab, sound wall, retaining wall, utility trench and pavement section designs shall comply
with the recommendations presented in the October 13, 2004 Berlogar Geotechnical
Investigation Report. Compliance shall be verified through certification of plans and field
inspections by the project soils engineer, and review by the City building and engineering
divisions.
13
 Design-Level Geotechnical Investigation Jacuzzi Property, prepared for Davidon Homes by Berlogar
Geotechnical Consultants. October 2004.
                                                                                                    49
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


The volume and approach to grading are substantially the same as evaluated in the Specific
Plan EIR. The proposed design achieves the principal goals of the Specific Plan of: (1)
preserving the high points along the ridgeline; (2) accommodating a public trail system with
multiple access points; and (3) placement of buildings at elevations which avoid interference
with views from the ridge top trail. The proposed project design will comply with adopted
Specific Plan EIR Mitigation Measures III.L.1 and 2. In addition, in order to assure
consistency with detailed landscape standards in the Specific Plan, the following
supplemental language is recommended as a refinement to existing Measure III.L.1:


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 7 (Refines EIR Visual Resources Mitigation
Measure III.L.1 to address grading design and landscaping of open space): Grading within
the open space system shall be subject to approval of detailed plans which provide for a
natural appearance, including use of landscaping consistent with the City's Class III
standards.



(4) Vegetation and Wildlife

The Specific Plan EIR provides a complete description of the biotic habitats and resources
present within the 785-acre planning area in 1996. As discussed in the Environmental
Setting section above, much of the Specific Plan area and surrounding properties have since
developed, and the subject property is now one of the few remaining undeveloped sites in
the area. Whereas no development has occurred on the 169.7-acre project site since
certification of the EIR, the pattern of usage by one special status species, in particular, has
since become better understood, and more recent permitting efforts with state and federal
resource agencies have clarified the jurisdictional status of on-site resources.

An undated Biological Assessment was initiated in August of 2005 and completed in
October of this year for the entire project site, along with the adjoining Delizia Ranch LLC
property where right-of-way acquisition and grading operations may occur. The purpose of
the Biological Assessment was to provide an update to the analysis of special-status
biological resources presented in the original Specific Plan EIR. A reconnaissance-level
survey was completed in September of 2007 for the entire project site, and the adjoining
Delizia Ranch property. All information previously filed with the California Natural Diversity
Data Base (CNDDB 2007) was reviewed.

As reported in Appendix B, the Biological Assessment indicates that habitat conditions on
the subject property have been altered in recent years as a result of cattle grazing, removal
of orchards, and planting of non-native grasslands. This assessment confirms the findings
of the EIR analysis, concluding that no special-status plant communities occur on the project
site. However, the 2007 Biological Assessment also identifies the continuing potential for
occurrence of several protected bird species under today's habitat conditions, as previously
identified in the 1996 EIR. These include: (1) the western burrowing owl (a state special
concern species, known to nest on the subject property, and previously documented on
both the Delizia Ranch LLC property and within the adjoining State Route 4 Bypass right-of-
                                                                                             50
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

way); (2) the white-tailed kite (a state-listed fully-protected species, known to nest on the
Delizia Ranch LLC property); (3) the loggerhead shrike (protected under the State Fish &
Game Code and known to nest on the Delizia Ranch LLC property); and (4) the American
kestrel (also protected under the State Fish & Game Code and known to nest on the Delizia
Ranch LLC property).

An initial August 2005 reconnaissance level survey was conducted over the entire project
site. This survey confirmed the presence of western burrowing owls (BUOW) in an area
immediately east of Canada Valley Road and south of future Pinnacle View Way, on lands
owned by Davidon Homes and Shea Homes. A focused protocol survey14 was carried out
within this southwestern corner of the site, during the nesting season, to determine the
distribution and population of BUOW present. The survey was completed in cooperation
with the California Department of Fish & Game (CDFG), and revealed the presence of one
pair of nesting owls, five baby owls, and one additional lone adult owl. The observed owls
were found to be utilizing a complex of 12 ground squirrel burrows located on the small
remaining hill form situated along the common property line between the project site and
Shea Homes properties. Most of the occupied burrows were determined to be situated on
the project side of the property line, as shown in the enlarged site plan shown in Figure 19
and photograph Figure 20.

Based on a request from CDFG staff, the surveyed owls were subsequently banded by
ornithologist Jack Barclay of Albion Environmental. As reported in Appendix C15, trapping
took place between September 1 and 7, 2005, and led to the successful banding of 2 adult
and 5 juvenile owls. Each owl was released after numbered and colored identification
bands were installed, and none of the animals were injured. The bands were to facilitate
the collection of useful information involving migration, age and mortality of adult and baby
owls.

As discussed in the Biological Assessment, Appendix B, the BUOW is a federal Species of
Concern, a California Special Concern Species, and is protected under the Migratory Bird
Treaty Act. "Take" of the owl is therefore prohibited, and loss of nesting habitat must be
mitigated for in accordance with formal State policy. The adopted CDFG policy calls16 for
replacement of habitat on-site if possible, and where not possible, through contribution to an
approved mitigation site. The adopted CDFG mitigation policy references, and is predicated
upon the science outlined in, the California Burrowing Owl Consortium report (see Appendix
D).




14
   Based on guidelines prepared by the California Burrowing Owl Consortium, in their April 1993 Burrowing
Owl Survey Protocol and Mitigation Guidelines, included as Appendix D.
15
   Appendix C contains the September 12, 2005 report prepared by Albion Environmental, documenting
trapping and banding of burrowing owls under direction from the State Department of Fish & Game.
16
   The official CDFG Policy Report on Burrowing Owl Mitigation, dated October 17, 1995, is included as
Appendix E; this Policy Report is based on the April 1993 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol and Mitigation
Guidelines, prepared by the California Burrowing Owl Consortium (included as Appendix D).
                                                                                                            51
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Figure 19: Location of Surveyed Burrowing Owls




Figure 20: Photograph of Area Occupied by Burrowing Owls
                                                           52
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

Consistent with CDFG policy, opportunities for on-site mitigation of impacts to BUOW were
evaluated and reviewed with City staff, the property owner, and CDFG staff biologist Janice
Gan, based on the 2005 survey and banding work. The 25.5-acre open space amenity
located at the center of the project site (adjoining a proposed 8.22-acre park) was evaluated
for its potential to function as a protection habitat for the BUOW. The scale of this open
space, and the elevation changes which separate the upper hilltop from the adjoining
residential areas were thought to provide opportunities for owls to hunt and nest. However,
the proximity to adjoining residential areas and the planned use and maintenance of this
area for public access and improvement of trails were found to present potential conflicts
with its formal use as an owl preserve. Potential increases in long-term maintenance costs
and public liability associated with use of the area as both a public open space amenity and
formal owl preserve were also found to be of concern. It was therefore concluded that
mitigation for loss of burrowing owl nesting habitat documented in the 2005 survey and
banding work be addressed through conventional off-site habitat protection.

Mitigation for the 1 pair and 1 unpaired adult resident owl (and dependent juveniles) was
implemented in August of 2006, pursuant to the standards outlined in Appendix D and the
requirements set for in Appendix E. A Purchase Agreement was completed for 19.5 credits
(acres of occupied BUOW habitat credit) purchased by Davidon Homes for the Park Ridge
Project in the CDFG-approved Haera Conservation Bank, operated by Wildlands, Inc. Copies
of the executed Agreement were provided by the project sponsor to the City of Antioch and
CDFG. The 19.5 conservation bank credits correspond to the adopted CDFG policy (based on
the Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol and Mitigation Guidelines report prepared in April of 1993
by the California Burrowing Owl Consortium) of requiring 1.5 times 6.5 acres (9.75 acres) of
replacement occupied habitat for each pair or single adult bird affected (1.5 X 6.5 acres X 2
pair or single individuals = requirement for 19.5 acres of occupied replacement habitat).

Based on consultation with CDFG, a formal program was undertaken in early 2006 to
exclude all burrowing owls previously found utilizing the southwest portion of the site where
the proposed Phase I grading improvements would be completed as conceptually shown in
Figure 5. The exclusion process involved focused surveys, followed by the use of one-way
doors on occupied burrows to allow safe exiting of owls present, and finally collapsing of the
burrow complex. A February 6, 2006 survey of this area was conducted by Wildlife
Research Associates (WRA), leading to identification of three owls, one of which had been
previously banded. These owls were excluded in accordance with CDFG-approved
procedures, and all observed burrows within the southwest portion of the site were
collapsed. A February 27, 2007 follow-up survey led to identification and subsequent
exclusion of one owl within the southwestern portion of the site.

As discussed in Appendix B, the 2006-2007 exclusion work was successful in terms of
safely removing owls from the southwest portion of the project site, where the initial phases
of construction are planned. However, following exclusion work in the southwest portion of
the site, owls were observed for the first time in the adjoining northwest corner of the project
site. This initial observation of owls in the northwest portion of the Park Ridge project site
also coincides with successful exclusion of six owls on State Route 4 Bypass property
immediately east of the project site17.

17
     Six un-banded burrowing owls were identified and successfully excluded from an adjoining portion of the
                                                                                                               53
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


The preparation of this Addendum precipitated an additional reconnaissance level survey of
the entire 169.7-acre project site in September of 2007. One owl was observed in a new set
of burrows in the south-central portion of the site at that time. These owls were not
excluded, nor were the burrows collapsed. A supplemental survey of the entire site for
nesting BUOW was conducted by WRA on April 7, 2008, during which no owls were
observed within the southwest portion (exclusion area) of the site; however one pair of owls
was again observed in the northwest corner, outside of the exclusion area. No exclusion or
eradication efforts are reported to have been undertaken within the remaining portions of
the subject property. As a result, these areas currently remain accessible to BUOW.

In summary, a range of alternative BUOW mitigation measures were considered through
consultation between the project sponsor, City staff and CDFG staff in 2005-2006, and it
was determined that off-site habitat protection would be the only feasible approach for future
development of the Park Ridge site. Based on this consultation, the project sponsor
purchased 19.5 credits (occupied BUOW habitat acres) in a CDFG-approved mitigation
bank, corresponding to full mitigation for all owls identified on the 169.7-acre site at that
time. Subsequent CDFG-authorized banding exclusion activities have occurred on this site
and the adjoining Bypass property, leading to successful dispersal of owls away from those
areas contemplated for initial construction. However, owls have again been observed on
other portions of the Park Ridge property.

The preceding characterization of owl observations is consistent with the analysis presented
in the 1996 Specific Plan EIR. The potentially significant effect of disturbance to nesting
raptors was found to be reduced to a less-than-significant level through implementation of
original Mitigation Measure III.J.3. Based on the current information presented in this
Addendum, it is recommended that the following supplemental Mitigation Measures 8 and 9
be adopted to: (a) reflect the permanent protection of off-site habitat to mitigate for the loss
of occupied BUOW habitat present on the site in 2005-2006, pursuant to the standards
outlined in Appendix D and the requirements set for in Appendix E; and (b) ensure that no
accidental "take" of owls or other raptors occur during the phased Park Ridge construction
program. It is recommended that the lead agency adopt these supplemental measures in
order to ensure that impacts from implementation of the proposed project be reduced to a
less-than-significant level, as called for in the Specific Plan EIR.




State Route 4 Bypass right-of-way in the vicinity of the Contra Costa Canal in 2006. The loss of burrowing
owls nesting and foraging habitat within Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass right-of-way was mitigated for,
in part (pursuant to a Federal BO and State 1601 Agreement), through a $1,140,000 contribution to the East
Contra Costa Habitat Conservation Plan, and a corresponding planned preservation of suitable replacement
habitat.
                                                                                                           54
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 8 (Augments EIR Vegetation and Wildlife
Mitigation Measure III.J.3 to provide additional details for protection of Burrowing Owls): To
offset the loss of foraging and burrow habitat on the project site, off-site BUOW occupied
habitat shall be acquired and permanently protected, based on 1.5 times 6.5 acres for the
one pair, and 1.5 times 6.5 acres for the unpaired resident bird (for a total of 19.5 acres), in
accordance with the CBOC (1993) report and the CDFG Staff Report (1995). If the
mitigation site is habitat that is contiguous to occupied habitat (but not occupied itself) then
mitigation will be required at 2 times the 6.5 acres per pair or individual. This measure
compensates for loss of habitat, regardless of whether additional owls are observed on site
prior to construction. In addition, in order to prevent "take" of individual owls: (a) grading
shall be avoided within the 169.7-acre project site during the nesting season within 250 feet
of nesting BUOW; and (b) grading shall be avoided within 160 feet of owls outside the
nesting season. Grading work may take place subject to a pre-construction survey,
conducted by a qualified biologist within one week of construction start, which finds no
BUOW present.



The Biological Assessment finds that the San Joaquin kit fox has no potential for occurrence
on-site, and based on the presumed presence of extremely low numbers in the region and
the physical distance and urban separation of the site from known San Joaquin kit fox
habitat, no suitable habitat for this species occurs on the study site. Although ground
squirrel burrows, which could provide potentially suitable denning habitat, were observed on
site, no burrows showed signs of San Joaquin kit fox activity (i.e., large dirt ramps from
excavation, cleared vegetation, tracks, scat, etc). Therefore, construction within the
grasslands would not result in any temporary direct or indirect impacts to San Joaquin kit fox
individuals and/or habitat. This is a less-than-significant impact, and therefore no
supplemental mitigation measures are required.

The Biological Assessment finds that the proposed project could result in disturbance of
potential raptor nesting habitat on the adjacent Deliza Ranch lands within the study area.
Disturbance during the nesting season (February 1 through August 31) may result in the
potential nest abandonment and mortality of young. This potentially significant effect of
disturbance to nesting raptors was found to be reduced to a less-than-significant level
through implementation of original Mitigation Measure III.J.3. Consequently, in order to
incorporate the more specific recommendations of the Biological Assessment while
maintaining consistency with the Specific Plan EIR mitigation program, the following
supplemental mitigation measure is recommended:




                                                                                              55
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 9 (Augments EIR Vegetation and Wildlife
Mitigation Measure III.J.3 to provide additional details for protection of Raptors): To avoid
"take" and/or further evaluate presence or absence of raptors, the following measures are
recommended:
A. A pre-construction nesting bird survey of the individual trees throughout the study area
   shall be performed by a qualified biologist. If no nesting birds are observed no further
   action is required and grading may occur within one week of the survey to prevent
   "take" of individual birds that may have begun nesting after the survey.

B. If raptors are observed nesting on site after February 1 it should be assumed that they
   may also be nesting adjacent to the site. The CDFG Central Coast Regional office
   allows grading to occur if nesting raptors are observed, providing that a full pre-
   construction survey is conducted for the project site and adjoining property (Measure
   9A), and a 300-foot buffer zone is created around each observed nest to prevent
   disturbance and potential "take" of young.


As also reported in Appendix B, the project could result in the removal of potential passerine
nesting habitat in the non-native grasslands and trees along the southern and northern
boundaries, although no focused surveys for nesting passerines have been conducted
within the study area. Disturbance during the nesting season may result in the potential for
nest abandonment and mortality of young. Consequently, based on the mitigation strategy
outlined in the original EIR, and pursuant to the updated information presented in the
Biological Assessment, the following supplemental mitigation is recommended to augment
that adopted in the 1996 Specific Plan EIR:


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 10 (Augments EIR Vegetation and Wildlife
Mitigation Measure III.J.3 to provide additional details for protection of Passerines): The
central open space area will provide nesting passerine habitat. To avoid "take" and/or
further evaluate presence or absence of passerines throughout the site, the following
measures are recommended:

A. Grading within the grasslands should be conducted outside the nesting season, which
   occurs between approximately February 1 and August 15, except as provided for below.

B. If grading before February 1 is infeasible and groundbreaking must occur within the
   breeding season, a pre-construction nesting bird survey of the grasslands and adjacent
   trees shall be performed by a qualified biologist. If no nesting birds are observed no
   further action is required and grading shall occur within one week of the survey to
   prevent "take" of individual birds that may have begun nesting after the survey.

C. If birds are observed on site after February 1 it will be assumed that they are nesting on
   site or adjacent to the site and ground breaking will have to be delayed until after the
   young have fledged, as determined by bird surveys by a qualified biologist, or after the
   nesting season.


                                                                                                56
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009

D. The CDFG Central Coast Regional office does allow grading to occur if nesting
   passerines are observed on site, providing that a 100 foot buffer zone is created around
   the observed nest. Because nests may occur in the middle of the grading area, this
   method is not advised.

E. Nesting bird surveys for passerines may occur at the same time as those conducted for
   raptors, subject to the foregoing criteria.


Based on the 1996 EIR's identification of potential seasonal wetlands within the south-
western portion of the planning area (including a small portion of the subject property), a
jurisdictional assessment and delineation was completed in 2002 by wetland biologist
Michael Wood. As reported in Appendix H, the delineation found that the temporary
artificial drainage swale created several years ago to convey surface waters across the
southwest corner of the project site was unlikely to fall within the jurisdiction of the Army
Corps of Engineers (USACE), but could be found to be subject to control by the CDFG. The
delineation report and related documentation were submitted for review by the USACE and
CDFG. Responding on December 9, 200318, the USACE accepted the delineation as
complete, and declined to assert jurisdiction over any portion of the subject property.

A formal Notification package was submitted in October of 2002 for determination by CDFG
staff. CDFG review of these materials, together with a field visit, resulted in a determination
for waiver of a Section 1603 Agreement. However, the determination was made to mitigate
for the loss of water filtering benefits from the surface swale through the following
supplemental measure, consistent with the approach outlined in adopted Mitigation
Measure III.J.2 of the Specific Plan EIR in order to reduce potentially significant water
quality impacts to a less-than-significant level.


Addendum Supplemental Mitigation Measure 11 (Augments EIR Vegetation and Wildlife
Mitigation Measure III.J.2 to provide additional details for implementation of Water Filtering):
Removal of the temporary swale shall be mitigated for by either: (A) Inclusion of 0.17 acres
of replacement open drainage course(s) within the project boundaries having similar filtering
benefits; or (B) Inclusion of an integrated storm drainage system filtering mechanism which
employs low flow soil percolation through rock layers.



Foregoing Supplemental Measure 11 has been addressed in the Vesting Tentative Map
(Figure 2) and Illustrative Development Plan (Figure 4) through the provision of both: (a)
grassy swale improvements along the single-loaded local street which adjoins
approximately 1,200 feet of open space and park area within the easterly portion of the
project site; and (b) biocell and related water filtering improvements within the northwest,
southwest, northeast, and southeast portions of the site (detailed in blue color in Figure 4).



18
     Letter from Delta Office Chief Michael Finan, contained in Appendix H.
                                                                                              57
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




4. Conclusions


A. No Substantial Change in the Project
Implementation of the proposed Park Ridge project would result in substantially the same
scale and nature of residential development contemplated in the 1996 Specific Plan EIR
and the subsequent July 2005 EIR Addendum. The proposed project is substantially
consistent with land use, circulation, open space, grading and related policies contained in
the FUA #2 Specific Plan. As reflected in Appendix G, the City of Antioch has issued a
residential development allocation for this project based on a larger number of units than
reflected in the currently proposed project (562 vs. 525).

B. No Substantial Changes in Circumstances
There are no substantial changes in the circumstances under which the Park Ridge project
would be carried out. Twelve years following preparation of the Specific Plan EIR, the
project site is now one of the last undeveloped properties within the area. The site now
adjoins completed housing projects to the west and south, and the completed State Route
4 Bypass to the east. Implementation of the proposed project would facilitate completion of
key public facility improvements as identified in the Specific Plan, including a neighborhood
park, open space and trails, and a collector roadway.

C. No New Information of Substantial Importance
Considerable supplemental information has been assembled for the preparation of this
Addendum. None of this information is of substantial importance, which was not known and
could not have been known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the
previous EIR was certified as complete. Specifically, the project does not present any new
potentially significant effects not evaluated in the previous EIR. In addition, the previously
identified significant effects of the Specific Plan would not be accentuated through
implementation of the proposed Park Ridge project. No changes in the feasibility of
originally adopted Specific Plan mitigation measures have been identified (see Appendix I).
Finally, seven refined, supplemental mitigation measures have been recommended herein
to address the specific design details and current circumstances of the proposed Park Ridge
project; these are substantially the same as those adopted in the certified Specific Plan EIR.
Flexibility has been added to several of the proposed measures, providing alternative but
equally effective mitigation. However, these changes would not result in a significant
reduction in post-mitigation project effects, compared to the original measures alone.



                                                                                               58
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




5. Report Preparation Personnel


A. Project Development Team
Davidon Homes .............................................................................Jeff Thayer, Vice President
dk Associates, Inc. .................................................................................Andy Palfy, President



B. City of Antioch
Tina Wehrmeister .............................................. Deputy Director of Community Development
Mindy Gentry............................................................................................... Associate Planner


C. Richard T. Loewke, AICP, and Subconsultants
Richard T. Loewke, AICP Urban & Environmental Planning ..................................... Principal
Fehr & Peers Associates ........................Sam Tabibnia, P.E. Senior Transportation Engineer
Wildlife Research Associates .................................................Trish Tatarian, Wildlife Biologist




                                                                                                                          59
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                                      Appendices
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                         Appendix A
        Transportation Analysis & Appendices
                                   TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM


Date:             November 28, 2008

To:               Richard T. Loewke, AICP

From:             Sam Tabibnia and Ellen Robinson

Subject:          Antioch Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis
                                                                                                            WC05-2153


This memorandum documents the results of the updated traffic analysis completed for the proposed
Davidon Homes project. The proposed development is part of the Future Urbanization Area (FUA) #2
Specific Plan, which was originally analyzed in an EIR certified in 1996. The transportation section of the
EIR was based on future growth assumptions developed in the early 1990s. Although the planned
development within the specific plan area has not changed drastically since the certification of the EIR in
1996, the planned transportation infrastructure and traffic conditions have changed to require a new
analysis. Thus, this study uses more recent traffic counts and forecasts to update the future traffic
analyses and determine if the proposed Project would cause any new traffic impacts that were not
identified in the 1996 EIR. Note that this updated analysis focuses on traffic impacts and a few specific
issues that have been raised; it does not provide a broad analysis of other transportation issues such as
bicycle and pedestrian circulation, transit services, or on-site circulation.

Based on the analysis, the Project would cause a significant impact at the Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest
Avenue intersection under Cumulative conditions. The impact can be mitigated by restriping the
southbound Hillcrest Avenue approach to one exclusive right-turn lane, one through lane, and two
exclusive left-turn lanes, and providing an additional left-turn lane on the eastbound Lone Tree Way
approach.

In addition, the following improvements are also recommended. These improvements would enhance
traffic flow in the study area. However, they are not identified as significant impacts because they do not
exceed the significance criteria used in this analysis.

      ·   At the Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection, convert the southbound through lane to
          a shared through/left-turn lane. This will also require implementation of split phasing signal
          operations in the north/south directions. This modification is needed under Near-Term
          conditions only and the intersection can be converted back to its current configuration after
          project access to Laurel Road in the north is completed.

          In addition, if the full project is completed under Near-Term Plus Project conditions without any
          direct connections to Laurel Road, the queues on southbound Canada Valley Road at Lone Tree
          Way would spill back to the upstream intersection even if the above stated improvements are
          implemented. Based on our analysis, about 50 percent of the Davidon project, corresponding to
          about 270 single-family residential units, can be developed before access to Laurel Road would
          be required.



                   100 Pringle Avenue, Suite 600 Walnut Creek, CA 94596 (925) 930-7100 Fax (925) 933-7090
                                                    www.fehrandpeers.com
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 2




     ·   At the Canada Valley Road/Vista Grande Drive/Pinnacle View Way, consider strategies that
         would enhance pedestrian safety and encourage walking between the Davidon Homes project
         and the existing elementary school and park on Vista Grande Drive. Potential improvement
         options, such as high-visibility cross-walks, in-crosswalk signage, flashing beacons/signs, in-
         pavement warning lights, and/or HAWK signals are described in detail starting on page 10 of this
         memorandum.

     ·   At the Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive intersection, consider providing a second left-turn lane on
         westbound Laurel Road into southbound Country Hills Drive in order to reduce the likelihood for
         queue spillover into the through lanes. This will also require providing a second 300-foot
         receiving lane on southbound Country Hills Drive.

This memorandum includes the following sections:

     ·   Study Area ­ describes the project study area and defines the study intersections.

     ·   Analysis Methodology ­ Describes the methodologies used to analyze project impacts.

     ·   Existing Conditions ­ Describes the current conditions in the vicinity of the proposed project.

     ·   Near-Term Conditions Analysis ­ Provides an analysis of project impacts under Near-Term
         conditions that accounts for other developments expected to be completed in the next few years.

     ·   Cumulative Conditions Analysis ­ Provides an analysis of project impacts under Cumulative
         conditions that accounts for buildout of the City's General Plan.

     ·   CCTA Traffic Service Objectives Analysis ­ Provides an analysis of traffic service objectives
         on routes of regional significance as required by Contra Costa Transportation Authority (CCTA).

STUDY AREA

The proposed Project would consist of 525 dwelling units located on the south side of Laurel Road
between Canada Valley Road and Country Hills Drive in the City of Antioch. This analysis focuses on the
operations of the following key intersections in the vicinity of the site:

1.   Laurel Road/Canada Valley Road                    10. Lone Tree Way/Northbound SR 4 Bypass
2.   Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive                       Ramps
3.   Laurel Road/Southbound SR 4 Bypass Ramps          11. Lone Tree Way /Slatten Ranch Road
4.   Laurel Road/Northbound SR 4 Bypass Ramps          12. Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
5.   Laurel Road/Slatten Ranch Road                    13. Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
6.   Laurel Road/Live Oak Avenue                       14. Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
7.   Laurel Road/Empire Avenue                         15. Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
8.   Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road                  16. Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
9.   Lone Tree Way/Southbound SR 4 Bypass              17. Laurel Road/Tree Line Way (With Project only)
     Ramps                                             18. Laurel Road/Hillcrest Avenue

The locations of the study intersections are shown on Figure 1. Figure 2 presents the proposed site plan
for the Project.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 3




ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY

Study intersection operations were evaluated using Level of Service (LOS) calculations. The analysis
method outlined in Technical Procedures Update prepared by the Contra Costa Transportation Authority
(CCTA) (July, 2006), known as CCTALOS, was utilized. To augment this analysis, the Transportation
Research Board's 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) method and Synchro software were also used.

Level of Service Criteria

In order to measure and describe the operation of a local roadway network, traffic engineers and planners
commonly use a grading system called level of service (LOS) to describe intersection operations. The
LOS grading system qualitatively characterizes traffic conditions associated with varying levels of traffic.
These levels range from LOS A, indicating free-flow traffic conditions with little or no delay experienced by
motorists, to LOS F, which describes congested conditions where traffic flows exceed design capacity,
resulting in long queues and delays.

At each study intersection, traffic conditions were evaluated using the LOS methodologies developed by
the CCTA and HCM. The CCTA planning-level analysis uses various intersection characteristics (i.e.,
traffic volumes, lane geometry, and signal phasing) to estimate the volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio of an
intersection. Table 1 summarizes the relationship between the v/c ratio and LOS. HCM operation
analysis uses various intersection characteristics (i.e., traffic volumes, lane geometry, signal timing, and
pedestrian activity) to estimate the average delay (measured in seconds per vehicle) experienced by
motorists traveling through an intersection. Table 2 summarizes the relationship between delay and LOS
for signalized and unsignalized intersections. Typically, the delay and LOS for the worse movement from
the side-street is reported for side-street stop-controlled intersections.



                                                 TABLE 1
                             INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS (CCTA)

                      Sum of Critical
     Level of
                    Volume-to-Capacity                                          Description
     Service
                          Ratio
                                               Stable Flow: Very slight or no delay. No approach phase is fully
        A                   < 0.60
                                               utilized by traffic and no vehicle waits longer than one red indication.
                                               Stable Flow: Slight delay. An occasional approach phase is fully
        B                 0.61 - 0.70
                                               utilized.
                                               Stable Flow: Acceptable delay. A few drivers arriving at the end of a
        C                 0.71 - 0.80
                                               queue may occasionally have to wait through one signal cycle.
                                               Approaching Unstable Flow: Tolerable delay. Delays may be
        D                 0.81 - 0.90
                                               substantial during short periods, but excessive back ups do not occur.
                                               Unstable Flow: Intolerable delay. Delay may extend through several
        E                 0.91 - 1.00
                                               cycle lengths.

        F                   > 1.00             Forced Flow: Excessive delay.

   Source: Technical Procedures, Contra Costa Transportation Authority, 1997.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 4




                                              TABLE 2
                              INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS
                                     (HIGHWAY CAPACITY MANUAL)

                                                                                                 Average
  Level of
                                                 Description                                   Control Delay
  Service
                                                                                                (Seconds)
Signalized Intersections

                 Operations with very low delay occurring with favorable progression and/or
      A                                                                                           < 10.0
                 short cycle length.
                 Operations with low delay occurring with good progression and/or short
      B                                                                                        > 10.0 to 20.0
                 cycle lengths.
                 Operations with average delays resulting from fair progression and/or
      C                                                                                        > 20.0 to 35.0
                 longer cycle lengths. Individual cycle failures begin to appear.

                 Operations with longer delays due to a combination of unfavorable
      D          progression, long cycle lengths, or high V/C ratios. Many vehicles stop and   > 35.0 to 55.0
                 individual cycle failures are noticeable.
                 Operations with high delay values indicating poor progression, long cycle
      E          lengths, and high V/C ratios. Individual cycle failures are frequent          > 55.0 to 80.0
                 occurrences. This is considered to be the limit of acceptable delay.
                 Operation with delays unacceptable to most drivers occurring due to over
      F                                                                                           > 80.0
                 saturation, poor progression, or very long cycle lengths.

Unsignalized Intersections

      A          Little or no delays                                                              < 10.0

      B          Short traffic delays                                                          > 10.0 to 15.0

      C          Average traffic delays                                                        > 15.0 to 25.0

      D          Long traffic delays                                                           > 25.0 to 35.0

      E          Very long traffic delays                                                      > 35.0 to 50.0

      F          Extreme traffic delays with intersection capacity exceeded                       > 50.0

Source:   Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2000



The CCTALOS methodology can produce different results than the HCM methodology. The primary
reason that the methodologies produce different results is that the CCTALOS methodology analyzes each
intersection independently as an isolated intersection and calculates LOS based on the theoretical
capacity of each movement at the intersection. LOS in the HCM methodology is based on the delay
experienced by each vehicle, which is a function of the physical characteristics of the intersection
including signal timing and phasing.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 5




Significance Criteria

The following criteria were used to determine if the proposed Project would have a significant impact on
the study intersections:

    ·   A significant impact occurs if any basic route intersection operations within regional commercial
        areas or within 1,000 feet of a freeway interchange (Intersections 2-5) deteriorate below an
        acceptable minimum LOS Low level E (v/c = 0.94) (GM Policy 3.4.2.1a).
    \

    ·   A significant impact occurs if any basic route intersection operations on other residential or
        arterial roadways (Intersections 1 and 17) deteriorate below an acceptable minimum LOS Mid-
        Range D (v/c = 0.87) (GM Policy 3.4.2.1c).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if intersection operations on regional routes of significance or basic
        intersections outside the Antioch Planning Area (Intersections 6-13, 14, 15, 16 and 18)
        deteriorate below the adopted Action Plan acceptable minimum LOS D or better (v/c = 0.89) to an
        unacceptable level E or F (GM Policy 3.4.1.1).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if the v/c ratio at an intersection operating at an unacceptable level
        (LOS E or F) increases by more than 0.02 (2003 General Plan EIR).
    ·   A significant impact occurs if the average delay at an intersection operating at an unacceptable
        level (LOS E or F) increases by more than 5 seconds (2003 General Plan EIR).
    ·   A significant impact occurs at an unsignalized intersection if operations decline from an
        acceptable level to an unacceptable level (as defined above), and the need occurs for installation
        of a traffic signal based on the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) Peak Hour
        Signal Warrant (Warrant 3).
    ·   Operations of a roadway segment to exceed the established traffic service objective (TSO)
        standard.
    ·   Deterioration in a roadway segment that already exceeds the established TSO standard by
        increasing the roadway volume by more than one percent.

EXISTING CONDITIONS
City of Antioch provided weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 AM) and evening (4:00 to 6:00 PM) peak period
intersection turning movement counts in May 2008 at the study intersections. The existing traffic counts
are provided in Appendix A. For each intersection, the single hour with the highest traffic volumes during
each count period was identified. The peak hour volumes are presented on Figure 3. The peak hour
data is used as the basis for intersection operations analysis. These counts were collected after Segment
1 of the SR 4 Bypass freeway between SR 4 and Lone Tree Way was opened for public use and account
for the resulting changes in local and regional traffic pattern. The existing lane configurations and traffic
control at the study intersections are shown on Figure 4.

Intersection operations were analyzed at ten of the study intersections using both the HCM and
CCTALOS methodologies. Only these ten intersections were analyzed under Existing and Near-Term
conditions because the other intersections either do not exist or the proposed project would not add
substantial amount of traffic to them under Existing and Near-Term conditions because of the roadway
network that would be completed under Near-Term conditions.

Table 3 summarizes LOS at the study intersection, as calculated using both HCM and CCTALOS
methodologies. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are provided in Appendices B and C for
both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies, respectively. Using either HCM or CCTALOS methodologies,
the ten study intersections currently operate at LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak hours using
either the HCM or CCTALOS methodologies.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 6




                                                        TABLE 3
                                                 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                              PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE


                                                                           Peak               HCM                 CCTALOS
  No.                    Intersection                      Control1
                                                                           Hour       Delay         LOS  2
                                                                                                                V/C         LOS3
                                                                            AM          19           B          0.38            A
   8       Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road                  Signal
                                                                            PM          26           C          0.54            A
           Lone Tree Way/Southbound SR 4                                    AM          20           B          0.51            A
   9                                                         Signal
           Bypass Ramps                                                     PM          20           B          0.59            A
           Lone Tree Way/Northbound SR 4                                    AM          22           C          0.31            A
   10                                                        Signal
           Bypass Ramps                                                     PM          14           B          0.48            A
                                                                            AM          24           C          0.46            A
   11      Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road                  Signal
                                                                            PM          30           C          0.49            A
                                                                            AM          30           C          0.48            A
   12      Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue                       Signal
                                                                            PM          30           C          0.50            A
                                                                            AM          42           D          0.71            C
   13      Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road                    Signal
                                                                            PM          40           D          0.61            B
                                                                            AM          33           C          0.44            A
   14      Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue                    Signal
                                                                            PM          29           C          0.54            A
                                                                            AM          13           B          0.32            A
   15      Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive                  Signal
                                                                            PM          13           B          0.44            A
                                                                            AM          39           D          0.44            A
   16      Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue              Signal
                                                                            PM          27           C          0.32            A
                                                                            AM          21           C          0.34            A
   18      Laurel Road/Hillcrest Avenue                      Signal
                                                                            PM          17           B          0.22            A
   Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
   1.   Signal = signal controlled intersection; SSS = side street stop controlled intersection.
   2.   Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual,
        Transportation Research Board, 2000.
   3.   Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority
        Technical Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
   Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.



PROJECT TRIP GENERATION AND DISTRIBUTION

The proposed Davidon Homes project would consist of 525 single-family dwelling units. Vehicle trips
generated by the Project were estimated by applying trip generation rates from Institute of Transportation
Engineers Trip Generation (7th Edition). As summarized in Table 4, the proposed Project is estimated to
generate 394 AM peak hour trips and 530 PM peak hour trips.

Project trip distribution takes into account the location, land use, and density of other developments within
the study area and the major travel routes that serve the Project area. Trip distribution for the Project is
shown on Figure 5. This trip distribution is consistent with the trip distribution presented in the Traffic
Study for the Proposed Laurel Ranch Development (TJKM, February 2004).
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 7




                                                 TABLE 4
                                     PROPOSED PROJECT TRIP GENERATION

                                                                          AM Trips                 PM Trips
                                                           Daily
                 Land Use                      Size        Trips     In     Out      Total   In      Out      Total
                                 1
        Single Family Residential            525 d.u.      5,024     98     296      394     334     196      530
   Notes: d.u. = dwelling unit
      1. ITE Land Use Category 210 Single Family Detached Housing:
           Daily: T = 9.57 (x)
           AM: T = 0.75 (x) ; In = 25%, out = 75%
           PM: T = 1.01 (x) ; In = 63%, Out = 37%

   Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


NEAR-TERM CONDITIONS

The analysis of Near-Term No Project and Near-Term With Project conditions are described below.

Near-Term No Project Conditions

The Near-Term conditions represents traffic conditions in the near future. It accounts for traffic that will be
generated by projects currently under construction or expected to be completed within the next few years
in the vicinity of the proposed project. For this analysis, traffic generated by the following projects was
added to the Existing Conditions volumes to estimate traffic volumes under Near-Term No Project
conditions:

    ·   Deer Valley Estates (136 single-family dwelling units)
    ·   Hidden Glen (371 single-family dwelling units)
    ·   Sand Creek Ranch (308 single-family dwelling units)
    ·   Tierra Villas (122 single-family dwelling units)
    ·   Lone Tree Landing (33,000 square feet of retail)
    ·   Wal-Mart expansion (33,575 square feet of retail)

Intersection volumes under Near-Term No Project conditions are presented on Figure 5. This analysis
assumes that the roadway network and intersection configurations under Near-Term conditions would
remain same as the Existing conditions. Tables 4 summarizes peak hour LOS at the study intersection
under Near-Term No Project conditions. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are provided in
Appendices B and C. All study intersections would continue to operate at LOS D or better under Near-
Term No Project conditions using either the HCM or CCTALOS methodologies.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 8




                                                         TABLE 4
                                                  NEAR-TERM CONDITIONS
                                                PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE

                                                                                                                             4
                                                                          No Project                         With Project
                                                         Peak
 No.               Intersection               Control1               HCM            CCTALOS              HCM             CCTALOS
                                                         Hour
                                                                                2                 3                  2
                                                                 Delay LOS          V/C     LOS       Delay LOS          V/C      LOS32

          Lone Tree Way/Canada                           AM        21       C       0.45      A        37        D       0.59      A
 8                                             Signal
          Valley Road                                    PM        29       C       0.65      B        47        D       0.73      C
          Lone Tree Way/Southbound                       AM        19       B       0.60      B        21        C       0.65      B
 9                                             Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                              PM        24       C       0.74      C        30        C       0.81      D
          Lone Tree Way/Northbound                       AM        20       B       0.34      A        20        B       0.36      A
 10                                            Signal
          SR 4 Bypass Ramps                              PM        15       B       0.55      A        15        B       0.58      A
          Lone Tree Way/Slatten                          AM        21       C       0.48      A        22        C       0.49      A
 11                                            Signal
          Ranch Road                                     PM        28       C       0.55      A        28        C       0.57      A
          Lone Tree Way/Empire                           AM        31       C       0.57      A        30        C       0.62      B
 12                                            Signal
          Avenue                                         PM        33       C       0.64      B        35        C       0.70      C
          Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley                      AM        43       D       0.77      C        44        D       0.78      C
 13                                            Signal
          Road                                           PM        42       D       0.73      C        42        D       0.75      C
          Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest                        AM        36       D       0.54      A        36        D       0.55      A
 14                                            Signal
          Avenue                                         PM        35       C       0.63      B        35        D       0.66      B
          Lone Tree Way/Vista                            AM        11       B       0.35      A        11        B       0.37      A
 15                                            Signal
          Grande Drive                                   PM        13       B       0.49      A        13        B       0.50      A
          Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest                  AM        36       D       0.50      A        40        D       0.53      A
 16                                            Signal
          Avenue                                         PM        23       C       0.36      A        27        C       0.41      A
          Laurel Road/Hillcrest                          AM        19       B       0.40      A        19        B       0.41      A
 18                                            Signal
          Avenue                                         PM        14       B       0.29      A        14        B       0.30      A
     Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
     1.   Signal = signal controlled intersection.
     2.   Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual,
          Transportation Research Board, 2000.
     3.   Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority
          Technical Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
     4.   The project analyzed under this scenario includes all phases of the development (i.e., 525 dwelling units).
     Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Near-Term With Project Conditions

Trips generated by the proposed Davidon Homes project were added to the Near-Term No Project
volumes to estimate the Near-Term With Project Volumes shown on Figure 7. The Near-Term With
Project conditions analysis includes all phases of the Davidon Homes development, consisting of 525
dwelling units. This analysis assumes that the roadway network would remain same as the existing
roadway network and all study intersections would continue to have the same configuration. Thus, this
analysis assumes that Laurel Road would not be extended further west from the SR 4 Bypass and the
proposed Davidon Homes project would not connect to Laurel Road. All access for the proposed
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 9




Davidon Homes project would be to and from the south through Vista Grande Drive and Canada Valley
Road.

Table 4 summarizes LOS results at the study intersections under Near-Term With Project conditions
using both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are
provided in Appendices B and C. Although delay experienced by vehicles would increase and LOS would
deteriorate under Near-Term Plus Project conditions, the study intersections would continue to operate at
LOS D or better.

Queuing on Southbound Canada Valley Road at Lone Tree Way

The Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection currently operates at LOS B during the AM peak
hour and LOS C during the PM peak hour based on the HCM methodology. The intersection would
operate at LOS D under Near-Term With Project conditions. Since the intersection would continue to
operate at an acceptable LOS, The project would not cause a significant impact at this intersection using
the significance criteria described earlier.

However, based on the completed analysis and confirmed by field observations, the queue on
southbound left-turn on Canada Valley Road onto eastbound Lone Tree Way currently exceeds the 170-
foot left-turn pocket during both AM and PM peak hours. Table 5 presents the 95th percentile queues on
the southbound approach of the intersection under Existing and Near-Term conditions. The detailed
queuing analysis reports are included in Appendix D. The queue is expected to increase under Near-
Term No Project conditions and would be further exacerbated by the addition of traffic generated by the
buildout of the proposed Davidon Homes project.


                                                TABLE 5
                           QUEUE LENGTHS AT LONE TREE WAY/CANADA VALLEY ROAD

                                                                95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) 1
                 Storage                   Existing              Near-Term No            Near-Term With             Near-Term With
     Lane                Peak                                                                         3
                 Length                   Conditions                Project               Full Project              Partial Project3
                         Hour
                  (feet)             Existing N/S Split Existing N/S Split Existing N/S Split Existing N/S Split
                                                      2                  2                  2                  2
                                     Phasing Phasing Phasing Phasing Phasing Phasing Phasing Phasing
Southbound                    AM         50          170          50          170          50          370           50        310
                    320
 Through                      PM         70          140          70          140          70          360           70        300
Southbound                    AM        250          160         250          160         650          260          550        170
                    170
   Left                       PM        250          140         290          140         570          250          510        160
Note: Bold indicates queue exceeding storage length.
        th
1.    95 percentile queue as calculated by Synchro.
2.    This includes implementation of split phasing in the north/south direction and converting the southbound through lane to a
      shared left-turn/through lane.
3.    The project analyzed under this scenario includes all phases of the development (i.e., 525 dwelling units).
4.    The project analyzed under this scenario includes 270 dwelling units.


Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 10




The current roadway configuration and the adjacent developments do not allow for providing an additional
left-turn lane or lengthening the existing left-turn lane. However, the queue spillover can be alleviated by
converting the exclusive southbound through-lane to a shared through/left-turn lane. This lane
configuration would require the intersection signal operation to be converted to split phasing in the
northbound and southbound directions. The pedestrian signal phases on both the east and west sides of
the intersection can still be maintained.

As shown in Table 5, the proposed intersection reconfiguration would reduce the 95th percentile queues
on southbound Canada Valley Road under Existing and Near-Term No Project conditions to less than the
provided storage length. However, the 95th percentile queues under the Near-Term With Project scenario
(where development of the full Davidon project is assumed) after the implementation of the proposed
improvement, would be longer than the provided capacity on both the exclusive left-turn lane and the
shared left-turn/through lane and queues would spill back to the upstream intersection. It is estimated
that the proposed Davidon project would need to be reduced by about 50 percent to about 270 units in
order to reduce the queues on southbound Canada Valley Road to be accommodated within the provided
storage capacity.

The Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection would continue to operate at acceptable LOS D or
better after conversion of the exclusive through lane to a shared left/though lane and implementation of
split phasing in the north/south direction under Existing, Near-Term No Project, and Near-Term With
Project conditions during both AM and PM peak hours.

In the long term, new roadways would connect the Davidon Homes project site to the north through
Country Hills Drive and Laurel Road. These roadways would allow trips generated by the Davidon project
and adjacent developments to use the new roadways to access the SR 4 Bypass freeway. Thus,
reducing the amount of traffic turning left from southbound Canada Valley Road onto Lone Tree Way.
The Cumulative conditions analysis, presented in the following section, assumes that these roadway
connections would be provided. Therefore, when the roadway connections to Laurel Road are
completed, the Davidon Homes project can be completed. In addition, the southbound approach of the
Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road intersection can be reverted back to its current configuration with
exclusive left-turn and through lanes and protected left-turn signal operations in the north/south
directions.

Pedestrian Crossing at the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View Way
intersection

Canada Valley Road is designated as a collector by City of Antioch. The roadway has a design speed of
45 miles per hour (mph) and a posted speed limit of 30 mph, which is currently under consideration for an
increase to 35 mph. As a matter of policy, City of Antioch does not install stop signs on collectors in order
to maintain efficient traffic flow.

Currently, the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/Pinnacle View Way intersection provides three
approaches. Only the eastbound Vista Grande Drive approach is stop-controlled. The westbound
Pinnacle View Way approach would be completed as part of the Davidon Homes project and would
provide access to the project. The Carmen Dragon Elementary School and The Meadow Estates Creek
Park are located about one-quarter mile west of the intersection on Vista Grande Drive. Pedestrians
must cross Canada Valley Road at this intersection in order to access these uses from the Davidon
Homes site. However, the intersection does not currently provide any protected pedestrian crossings and
the somewhat high vehicle speeds on Canada Valley Road may deter pedestrians from walking.

Based on traffic volume forecasts developed for this analysis, the intersection is not expected to satisfy
MUTCD peak hour intersection volume signal warrants after completion of the Davidon Homes project
(See Appendix E). The intersection is also not expected to satisfy the MUTCD pedestrian volume signal
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 11




warrant. Thus, conventional signalization of the intersection is not recommended at this time. However,
periodic monitoring of vehicular and pedestrian volumes after the completion of the project should be
considered to determine if the intersection would satisfy any additional MUTCD signal warrants in the
future.

Since conventional signalization or all-way stops are not recommended at this intersection, potential
options to improve pedestrian crossing at this intersection are discussed below.

   ·   High Visibility Crosswalks ­ are crosswalks with
       different striping, patterns, or pavement material that
       increase the visibility of a crosswalk. They are often
       accompanied by other enhancements such as in-
       crosswalk signage, or flashing beacons.




   ·   In-crosswalk Signage ­ (MUTCD Sign R1-6 or
       R-16a) are typically installed in the roadway
       median or center striping at unsignalized
       intersections to remind drivers of pedestrian right-
       of-way in crosswalk.          They are usually
       manufactured with flexible material to not damage
       vehicles.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 12




   ·   Flashing Beacons/Signs ­ are overhead or side mounted signs or beacons that are installed at
       and/or in advance of a crosswalk and are actively or passively activated by pedestrians crossing
       the roadway. They typically rest on dark and are only activated when pedestrians are present to
       warn vehicles on the major approach of the roadway. When activated, they regularly flash or
       stutter amber light to capture driver attention.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 13




   ·   In-Pavement Warning Lights ­ Both sides of a crosswalk are lined with pavement markers,
       oftentimes containing an amber LED strobe-light. These are manually or passively activated by
       pedestrians and the strobe-lights provide a dynamic visual cue to drivers. However, their visibility
       deceases during periods or sunrise/sunset and high congestion. The in-pavement warning lights
       can be combined with flashing beacons to further increase effectiveness.




   ·   HAWK Signal (High Intensity Activated Crosswalks) ­ Also known as a pedestrian hybrid signal
       is a special type of pedestrian activated signal used to warn and control traffic at an unsignalized
       location to assist pedestrian crossing a marked crosswalk. When not activated, the signal is dark.
       The HAWK signal is activated by a pedestrian push button. The overhead signal begins flashing
       yellow and then solid yellow, advising drivers to prepare to stop. The signal then displays a solid
       red and shows pedestrians a "Walk" indication. Finally, an alternating flashing red signal ["wig-
       wag"] indicates that motorists may proceed when safe, after coming to a full stop. The pedestrian
       is shown a flashing "Don't Walk" with a countdown indicating the time left to cross." The side-
       street movements would continue to be stop-controlled and are not controlled by the HAWK
       signal. The figures below show a HAWK signal in operations. These signals have been
       implemented in Tuscan, Arizona and British Colombia and are effective at enhancing pedestrian
       safety at locations with high vehicle speeds or volumes where normal signal warrants are not
       satisfied. Parameters for design and installation of HAWK signals are proposed to be included in
       the 2009 Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 14




Many of the tools discussed above can be used by themselves or in combination with each other to
enhance pedestrian safety and encourage walking at the Vista Grande Drive/Canada Valley Road/
Pinnacle View Way intersection. Based on the significance criteria presented earlier, the condition at this
intersection is not a significant impact; however, it is recommended that City staff select an appropriate
improvement strategy at this location in consideration of the City's policies and resources in order to
enhance pedestrian safety and encourage walking.

CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS

The analysis of Cumulative No Project and Cumulative With Project conditions are described below.

Cumulative No Project Conditions

The roadway network used for the Cumulative conditions analysis consists of roadway improvements
expected to be completed by 2025. These assumptions are consistent with previously completed
environmental documents in the area. Major roadway improvements in the vicinity of the Project
assumed for this analysis include the following:

    ·   Completion of Segment 2 of the SR 4 Bypass as a four-lane freeway between Lone Tree Way
        and Balfour Road.

    ·   Extension of Laurel Road from its current terminus just west of the SR 4 Bypass to Hillcrest
        Avenue.

    ·   Extension of Country Hills Drive north to Laurel Road

    ·   Extension of Slatten Ranch Road from its current terminus just north of Lone Tree Way parallel to
        SR 4 Bypass.

Lane configurations and traffic control at the study intersections assumed for the Cumulative conditions
analysis are presented on Figure 8.

The Cumulative conditions represents the buildout of the City of Antioch General Plan, expected in year
2025. The traffic forecasts used in this analysis were developed based on the CCTA East County Travel
Demand Model as modified for the City of Antioch General Plan Update in 2003. Since the Cumulative
traffic volume forecasts include the buildout of the proposed Davidon Project, the Cumulative No Project
intersection volumes were calculated by subtracting the traffic generated by the proposed Project from
the Cumulative intersection turning movement forecasts. The Cumulative No Project intersection
volumes are shown on Figure 9.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 15




Tables 6 summarizes peak hour LOS at the study intersections under Cumulative No Project conditions.
The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are provided in Appendices B and C. The Lone Tree
Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would operate at LOS E during the PM peak hour using either HCM or
CCTALOS methodologies. All other study intersections would continue to operate at LOS D or better
under Cumulative No Project conditions using either the HCM or CCTALOS methodologies.

Cumulative With Project Conditions

Trips generated by all phases on the proposed Davidon Homes project (525 units) were added to the
Cumulative No Project volumes to estimate the Cumulative With Project Volumes shown on Figure 10.
This analysis assumes that the roadway network would remain same as the Cumulative No Project
conditions network. In comparison to the Near-Term conditions, the proposed Davidon Homes project
would be connected to Laurel Road in the north and trips generated by the project can use the Laurel
Road Interchange to access the freeway system.

Table 6 summarizes LOS results at the study intersections under Cumulative With Project conditions
using both HCM and CCTALOS methodologies. The detailed intersection LOS calculation sheets are
provided in Appendices B and C. Based on both methodologies, all study intersections, except the Laurel
Road/Tree Line Way and Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersections, would operate at acceptable
LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak hours.

The side-street stop-controlled Laurel Road/Tree Line Way intersection would operate at LOS F during
the AM and PM peak hours, based on the HCM methodology. However, the intersection serves low
traffic volumes and would not meet the MUTCD peak hour volume signal warrant. Thus, the proposed
project would not cause an impact at this intersection because the significance criterion for unsignalized
intersections requires the intersection to operate at an unacceptable LOS and satisfy the MUTCD peak
hour signal warrant.

Under Cumulative No Project Conditions, the Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would operate
at LOS D using the HCM methodology and LOS A using the CCTALOS methodology during the AM peak
hour. During the PM peak hour, the intersection would operate at unacceptable LOS E using either HCM
or CCTALOS methodologies. The addition of Project traffic would add more than 3 seconds of delay
using the HCM methodology, therefore constituting a significant impact.

IMPACT 1:         The addition of project traffic would contribute to unacceptable LOS E operations at the
                  Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection during the PM peak hour.

MITIGATION 1:     This impact can be mitigated by reconfiguring the southbound Hillcrest Avenue
                  approach (currently one exclusive right-turn lane, one through lane, one shared through
                  and left-turn lane, and one exclusive left-turn lane) to an exclusive right-turn lane, one
                  through lane, and two exclusive left-turn lanes, and providing a second left-turn lane on
                  the eastbound Lone Tree Way approach. The Project should contribute its fair share
                  toward the construction of this mitigation measure.

With implementation of this mitigation, the Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue intersection would improve to
acceptable conditions (LOS C with 31 seconds of delay during the AM peak hour and LOS D with 46
seconds of delay during the PM peak hour using the HCM methodology and LOS A with v/c of 0.60
during the AM peak hour and LOS C with v/c of 0.75 during the PM peak hour using the CCTALOS
methodology.)

This improvement was also recommended in the Arcadia Mixed Use Planned Development EIR (March
2002).
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 16




                                               TABLE 6
                                        CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                      PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE
                                                                                                             4
                                                             No Project                     With Project
                                              Peak
 No.          Intersection         Control1            HCM            CCTALOS           HCM            CCTALOS
                                              Hour
                                                                 2                3               2
                                                     Delay LOS       V/C    LOS       Delay LOS       V/C        LOS3
       Laurel Road/Canada                     AM      19     B       0.51    A         21     C       0.53        A
 1                                  Signal
       Valley Road                            PM      18     B       0.48    A         21     C       0.52        A
       Laurel Road/Country Hills              AM      32     C       0.56    A         37     D       0.68        B
 2                                  Signal
       Drive                                  PM      26     C       0.48    A         30     C       0.57        A
       Laurel Road/Southbound                 AM      17     B       0.52    A         17     B       0.58        A
 3                                  Signal
       SR 4 Bypass Ramps                      PM      16     B       0.51    A         15     B       0.60        A
       Laurel Road/Northbound                 AM      7      A       0.53    A         9      A       0.57        A
 4                                  Signal
       SR 4 Bypass Ramps                      PM      10     A       0.63    B         12     B       0.67        B
       Laurel Road/Slatten                    AM      29     C       0.69    A         28     C       0.69        B
 5                                  Signal
       Ranch Road                             PM      35     D       0.75    C         35     C       0.76        C
                                              AM      16     B       0.44    A         16     B       0.44        A
 6     Laurel Road/Live Oak Ave     Signal
                                              PM      27     C       0.42    A         24     C       0.43        A
                                              AM      27     C       0.55    A         28     C       0.56        A
 7     Laurel Road/Empire Ave       Signal
                                              PM      32     C       0.52    A         31     C       0.55        A
       Lone Tree Way/Canada                   AM      25     C       0.57    A         26     C       0.60        A
 8                                  Signal
       Valley Road                            PM      36     D       0.72    C         38     D       0.78        C
       Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4                  AM      23     C       0.57    A         23     C       0.58        A
 9                                  Signal
       Bypass Ramps                           PM      24     C       0.79    C         24     C       0.80        C
       Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4                  AM      9      A       0.54    A         10     A       0.54        A
 10                                 Signal
       Bypass Ramps                           PM      16     B       0.71    C         16     B       0.71        C
       Lone Tree Way/Slatten                  AM      45     D       0.72    C         45     D       0.72        C
 11                                 Signal
       Ranch Road                             PM      39     D       0.79    C         40     D       0.80        C
       Lone Tree Way/Empire                   AM      38     D       0.61    B         38     D       0.61        B
 12                                 Signal
       Avenue                                 PM      24     C       0.57    A         24     C       0.57        A
       Lone Tree Way/Deer                     AM      49     D       0.84    D         50     D       0.85        D
 13                                 Signal
       Valley Road                            PM      53     D       0.88    D         55     D       0.89        D
       Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest                AM      42     D       0.60    A         45     D       0.62        B
 14                                 Signal
       Avenue                                 PM      58     E       0.93    E         66     E       0.94        E
       Lone Tree Way/Vista                    AM      26     C       0.56    A         26     C       0.57        A
 15                                 Signal
       Grande Drive                           PM      38     D       0.84    D         39     D       0.85        D
       Country Hills Drive/                   AM      19     B       0.42    A         19     B       0.42        A
 16                                 Signal
       Hillcrest Avenue                       PM      22     C       0.53    A         22     C       0.54        A
       Laurel Road/Tree Line                  AM     N/A   N/A       N/A    N/A        67     F       N/A        N/A
 17                                 SSS2
       Way                                    PM     N/A   N/A       N/A    N/A        68     F       N/A        N/A
       Laurel Road/Hillcrest                  AM      40     D       0.85    D         40     D       0.85        D
 18                                 Signal
       Avenue                                 PM      52     D       0.87    D         54     D       0.88        D
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 17




 Note: Bold indicates intersections exceeding LOS standard.
 1.   Signal = signal controlled intersection.
 2.   Level of service for intersections based on control delay per vehicle, according to the Highway Capacity Manual,
      Transportation Research Board, 2000.
 3.   Signalized intersection level of service is based on v/c ratio according to the Contra Costa Transportation Authority
      Technical Procedures Manual, 1997(CCTA).
 4.   The project analyzed under this scenario includes all phases of the development (i.e., 525 dwelling units).
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.


Queuing on Westbound Laurel Road at Country Hills Drive

The analysis completed for this study assumes that the westbound Laurel Road provides a single left-turn
lane into southbound Country Hills Drive. As shown in Table 6, the Laurel Road/Country Hills Drive
intersection would operate at acceptable LOS D or better during both AM and PM peak hours under
Cumulative Plus Project conditions using either HCM or CCTALOS methodologies. However, it is
estimated that the close spacing of the Laurel Road/Southbound SR 4 Bypass Ramps intersection to the
east limits the storage space available for the left-turn lane on westbound Laurel Road onto southbound
Country Hills Drive to about 250 feet under Cumulative With Project conditions. Based on the completed
analysis, the 95th percentile queue would be about 300 feet during the PM peak hour under Cumulative
Plus Project conditions. Thus, the queue would occasionally spill out of the left-turn pocket and block
traffic in the through lane during the peak hours; however since the intersection would operate at LOS D
or better, the queue would clear at the end of each signal cycle.

The queue spillover can be alleviated by constructing a second left-turn lane on westbound Laurel Road.
This would also require construction of a second receiving lane on southbound Country Hills Drive. The
second lane would need to be about 300 feet. This improvement would reduce the 95th percentile queue
to about 150 feet for each of the dual left-turn lane and reduce the likelihood that queues would spillover
the left-turn pocket.

CCTA TRAFFIC SERVICE OBJECTIVES ANALYSIS

The East County Action Plan for Routes of Regional Significance (CCTA, 2000) establishes traffic service
objectives (TSOs) for routes of regional significance in eastern Contra Costa County. These routes
consist of freeways and major arterials that provide region wide connectivity.

One TSO used to measure freeway and arterial operations is peak hour Delay Index. Delay Index is
defined as the ratio of the peak hour congested travel time to free-flow travel time on each roadway
segment. For example, a Delay Index of 2.0 means that it takes twice as long to travel a particular
segment during the peak commute hour than during non-commute hours when traffic moves at free-flow
speeds. Objectives for relevant routes include a Delay Index of 2.5 for the SR 4 freeway and 2.0 for
surface arterials.

Operations along routes of regional significance under Cumulative conditions were evaluated using the
Delay Index measure. The Delay Index was calculated using results from the latest CCTA countywide
travel demand model. As shown in Table 7, all roadway segments satisfy their TSO under Cumulative
conditions.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 18




                                                      TABLE 7
                                               CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                                                   1
                                               DELAY INDEX SUMMARY

                                                                   No Project                           With Project
         Roadway                  Peak                  Northbound        Southbound         Northbound         Southbound
                                              TSO
         Segment                  Hour                      or                or                 or                 or
                                                        Eastbound         Westbound          Eastbound          Westbound
SR4 between A St. and              AM          2.5           1.0                1.3               1.0                  1.3
Hillcrest Ave.                     PM          2.5           1.6                1.1               1.6                  1.1
SR4 between Hillcrest and          AM          2.5           1.1                1.2               1.1                  1.2
SR160                              PM          2.5           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
SR4 Bypass between                 AM          2.5           1.2                1.1               1.2                  1.1
SR160 and Laurel Rd                PM          2.5           1.4                1.0               1.4                  1.0
SR4 Bypass between
                                   AM          2.5           1.0                1.3               1.0                  1.3
Laurel Rd and Lone Tree
                                   PM          2.5           1.2                1.0               1.2                  1.0
Way
SR4 Bypass between
                                   AM          2.5           1.0                1.3               1.0                  1.3
Lone Tree Way and Sand
                                   PM          2.5           1.2                1.0               1.2                  1.0
Creek Rd
Hillcrest Ave. between SR          AM          2.0           1.1                1.0               1.1                  1.0
4 and Deer Valley Rd.              PM          2.0           1.0                1.3               1.0                  1.4
Hillcrest Ave. between
                                   AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Deer Valley Rd. and
                                   PM          2.0           1.0                1.1               1.0                  1.1
Laurel Rd.
Hillcrest Ave. between SR          AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
4 and Deer Valley Rd.              PM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Laurel Rd. between
                                   AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Hillcrest Ave. and SR4
                                   PM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Bypass
Laurel Rd. between SR4             AM          2.0           1.0                1.2               1.0                  1.2
Bypass and Main St.                PM          2.0           1.2                1.0               1.2                  1.0
Lone Tree Way between
                                   AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Deer Valley Rd. and
                                   PM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.1                  1.0
Hillcrest Ave.
Lone Tree Way between
                                   AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Hillcrest Ave. and SR4
                                   PM          2.0           1.1                1.0               1.1                  1.0
Bypass
Lone Tree Way between
                                   AM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
SR4 Bypass and Fairview
                                   PM          2.0           1.0                1.0               1.0                  1.0
Ave
  Note: Bold indicates roadway segments exceeding the TSO.
  1.   Delay Index defined as ratio of peak hour congested to free-flow travel time and as estimated by the CCTA Countywide
       Travel Demand.
  Source: Fehr & Peers, 2008.
Mr. Richard Loewke
November 28, 2008
Page 19




Please contact us with any questions or comments.

Attachments:

Figures

Appendix A: Existing Traffic Counts

Appendix B: HCM LOS Calculation Worksheets

Appendix C: CCTALOS Calculation Worksheets

Appendix D: Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road Queuing Reports (check sheets)

Appendix E: Vista Grande/Canada Valley/Pinnacle View Way Signal Warrant Worksheet
                                                                                                                            160
                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ST.




                                                                                                                                                                    OAKLEY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIVE OAK AVE
                                      4
                 HILLCRE
                     ST




                           AV
                             E
                                                                                                                           SR
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                    BY
                                                                                                                                                        PA
                                                                                                                                                           SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EMPIRE AVE.
                                                                                                              PROJECT
                                                                                                                SITE
                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                               HILLCREST AVE.
      .
    RD




                                                                                                              1             17
             Y
          LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RD
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                        RD
        AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                     LAUREL
      RV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NC
                                                                                                              .
            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N RA
                                                                                                              RD
            DE




                                                                                                                     Y
                                                                                                                  LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SLATTE
                                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                           VA
                                                                                                                                A




                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                                                                                           DR
                                                                                                                                         D
                                                          ST




                                                                                                                                      NA




                                                               RL
                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                         CA




                                                                    ING
                                                                                                                                                                                    HILL




                                                                        H   ILL DR.
                                                                                                                                                                              Y




                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                           NTR




                                                          NT
                                                          U




                                                                                                                    DR.




                                                            RY HI
                                                                                                                                                                        COU




                                                                 LLS D
                                                                       R.                       16
                                 13
                                                                                                                  GRANDE




                                          LON
                                             E TR
                                                 EE W
                                                     Y.

                                                                                                14                 15                                           8           9                     10                                    11                  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHADY WILLOW LANE
                                                                                                                                                                               BYPASS
                                                                                                                 TA
                                                                                                              VIS




                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                  JEFFREY WAY
                                                                                                                                                                         STATE HIGHWAY




      N
                                                                                                                                    HELDORN RANCH RD.




 Not to Scale

 LEGEND:

     1     = Study Intersection

           = Future Roadway

                                                                                                                                                                    Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                    SITE VICINITY MAP AND
                                                                                                                           STUDY INTERSECTION LOCATIONS
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_1                                                                                                                 FIGURE 1
                                                                N
                                                           Not to Scale

                                    Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis




                                                         SITE PLAN
October 2007
Graphics\Oct07 Update\WC05-2153_2                         FIGURE 2
  8                                                                9                                                                10                                                              11


                    Canada Valley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Slaten Ranch
                                                                                     SB Off-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                     NB On-ramp
        190 (175)




                                                                         353 (361)

                                                                         287 (416)




                                                                                                                                                                                                         24 (101)

                                                                                                                                                                                                         42 (114)
        34 (22)
        31 (56)




                                                                                                                                                                                                         35 (67)
                                                                                                       1x2xvc
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                      1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1x2x3
                                                     168 (253)                                                                                                                      245 (357)                                                        29 (55)




                                                                         6 (10)
                                                     1,005 (942)                                                    1,000 (1,153)                                                   671 (831)                                                        837 (803)
                                                     166 (329)                                                      72 (98)                                                         8 (21)                                                           54 (160)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                   TRUE
                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                   TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                          cvxvxvc                                                         1x2x3                                                            1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Shady Willow Rd
                                                                                                       SB On-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                                      Jeffery Way
                                                                                4x5xvc




                                                                                                                                                4x5xvc
               4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                4x5x6
      29 (54)                                                                                                                                                                                          74 (217)
                                                      36 (84)
                                                      14 (55)
                                                     51 (173)




                                                                                                                                                                                    383 (437)
                                                                                                                                                                                      29 (43)
                                                                                                                                                                                     79 (137)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39 (51)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       47 (76)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     191 (167)
  746 (1,354)                                                      571 (1,169)                                                      662 (1,404)                                                       484 (892)
      52 (55)                                                       401 (541)                                                        160 (264)                                                         91 (256)


                    TRUE                                                             TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                             TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
 12                                                                13                                                               14                                                              15



                                                                                     Deer Valley Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vista Grande
                                                                                                                                                     Hillcrest Ave.
                    Empire Ave
        181 (176)

        105 (231)




                                                                         457 (191)
                                                                         353 (168)




                                                                                                                                         279 (423)
        77 (115)




                                                                                                                                         269 (97)
                                                                         17 (14)




                                                                                                                                         85 (77)




                                                                                                                                                                                                         41 (20)

                                                                                                                                                                                                         24 (42)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                       1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                      1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1x2x3
                                                     80 (129)                                                       185 (154)                                                       160 (229)                                                        37 (24)




                                                                                                                                                                                                         16 (9)
                                                     638 (702)                                                      833 (497)                                                       862 (720)                                                        967 (931)
                                                     81 (53)                                                        185 (151)                                                       24 (43)                                                          59 (121)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                   TRUE
                                                                                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                   TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                          1x2x3                                                           1x2x3                                                            1x2x3
               4x5x6




                                                                                4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                4x5x6
      168 (230)                                                          35 (87)                                                     177 (131)                                                           20 (18)
                                                     89 (76)
                                                     48 (46)
                                                     41 (36)




                                                                                                                    279 (192)
                                                                                                                    245 (365)
                                                                                                                    111 (168)




                                                                                                                                                                                    36 (17)
                                                                                                                                                                                    53 (87)
                                                                                                                                                                                    13 (26)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39 (35)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14 (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     123 (114)
      499 (759)                                                        644 (780)                                                     495 (915)                                                       693 (1,282)
       26 (112)                                                        157 (147)                                                       18 (22)                                                           30 (44)


                    TRUE                                                             TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                             TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
 16                                                                18
                    Hillcrest Ave




                                                                                     Hillcrest Ave
        439 (376)




                                                                         377 (459)
                                                                         74 (162)
        26 (63)

        63 (89)




                                                                         80 (50)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                       1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                      cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cvxvxvc
                                                     117 (45)                                                       155 (133)
                                                     93 (50)                                                        67 (9)
                                                     84 (34)                                                        48 (35)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                              Country Hills Dr.
                                                 TRUE
                                                                         4x5x6
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                    Laurel Rd.
                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                         FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                         FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     1x2x3                                                          1x2x3                                                           cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
                                    Hillcrest Ave.
               4x5x6




                                                                                4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                cvxvxvc
        44 (42)                                                         150 (17)
                                                       70 (73)
                                                     297 (281)
                                                       31 (49)




                                                                                                                      67 (27)
                                                                                                                    372 (302)
                                                                                                                      25 (39)




        77 (51)                                                           50 (7)
       143 (82)                                                         100 (22)


                    TRUE                                                             TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                            FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                       cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                      cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cvxvxvc
        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                        FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                         FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                         FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                        cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                cvxvxvc

                    FALSE                                                            FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                            FALSE                                                           FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                       cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                      cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEY:

        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                        FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                         cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                         FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      XX (YY) = AM (PM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peak Hour
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                        cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                     Traffic
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Volumes



                                                                                                                                                                                           Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                              PEAK HOUR TURNING MOVEMENTS
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_3                                                                                                                                  FIGURE 3
               Canada Valley
  8                                                                 9                                                          10                                                          11




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Slaten Ranch
                                                                                 SB Off-Ramp
                                          qqeeet




                                                                                                                                            NB On-ramp
                                                                                                          qqeee



                                                                                                                                                                      qeeet



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   qeet
      adg
      TRUE
                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                   TRUE
                                                                        afg
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                               Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                  TRUE              TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                           Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                              TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                            adggTRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TRUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shady Willow R
                                                   qqrt                                                                                                                       qwt                                                          qqer


                                                                                                  SB On-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                                                                adddgg
                                                                                                                                                             Jeffery Way
      adddg



                                                                         addd



                                                                                                                                    addd
              TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                       TRUE                                                         TRUE
              TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                       TRUE                                                         TRUE




                                                                                 Deer Valley Rd
 12                                                                 13                                                         14                                                          15




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vista Grande
                                                                                                                                            Hillcrest Ave.
               Empire Ave




                                                                                                                                                                      qeeet



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   qeer
                                          qeet



                                                                                                          qeet
   sdgg
      TRUE
                                                Lone Tree Way
                                                   TRUE
                                                                        sdg
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                               Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                  TRUE
                                                                                                                                adfgTRUE
                                                                                                                                                                           Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                              TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                sg
                                                                                                                                                                                                TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TRUE



                                                   qqet                                                          qqer                                                         qer                                                            qr
      adddg




                                                                                                                                                                                                sddg
                                                                         addg



                                                                                                                                    addg
              TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                       TRUE                                                         TRUE
              TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                       FALSE                                                        FALSE
 16                                                                 18
               Hillcrest Ave




                                                                                 Hillcrest Ave




                                                                                                          qet
                                          qr




      sdg
      TRUE
                                                Country Hills Dr.
                                                   TRUE
                                                                        sdg
                                                                         TRUE
                                                                                                                 Laurel Rd.
                                                                                                                  TRUE              FALSE                                     FALSE             FALSE                                       FALSE



                                                    qer                                                          qeet
                               Hillcrest Ave.
      sg



                                                                         sg




              TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                       FALSE                                                        FALSE
              FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                      FALSE                                                        FALSE




      FALSE                                         FALSE                FALSE                                    FALSE             FALSE                                     FALSE             FALSE                                       FALSE




              FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                      FALSE                                                        FALSE
              FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                      FALSE



                                                                                                                                                                                            KEY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                        = Signalized
      FALSE                                         FALSE                FALSE                                    FALSE             FALSE                                     FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Intersection




                                                                                                                                                                                 Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                       EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                  LANE CONFIGURATIONS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_4                                                                                                                 FIGURE 4
                                                                                                                                  160
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ST.




                                                                                                                                                                          OAKLEY ROAD
                                      35%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LIVE OAK AVE
                                            4
                 HILLCRE
                     ST




                           AV
                             E
                                                                                                                                 SR
                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5%
                                                                                                                                          BY
                                                                                                                                                              PA
                                                                                                                                                                 SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10%
                                                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EMPIRE AVE.
                                                                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                                                      5%              SITE
                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                     HILLCREST AVE.
      .
    RD




                                                                                                                    1             17
             Y
          LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RD
                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                              RD
        AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                           LAUREL
      RV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NC
                                                                                                                    .
            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N RA
                                                                                                                    RD
            DE




                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                        LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SLATTE
                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                 VA
                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                      18
                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR
                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                ST




                                                                                                                                            NA




                                                                     RL
                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                               CA




                                                                          ING
                                                                                                                                                                                          HILL




                                                                              H   ILL DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Y




                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                 NTR




                                                                NT
                                                                U




                                                                                                                          DR.




                                                                  RY HI
                                                                                                                                                                              COU




      20%
                                                                       LLS D
                                                                             R.                       16
                                 13
                                                                                                                        GRANDE




                                                LON
                                                   E TR
                                                       EE W
                                                           Y.

                                                                                                      14                 15                                           8           9                     10                                    11                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHADY WILLOW LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                     BYPASS
                                                                                                                       TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10%
                                                                                                                    VIS




                                                                                                                                                                                             4




                                                                                                                                                                                                        JEFFREY WAY
                                                                                                                                                                               STATE HIGHWAY




      N
                                                                                                                                          HELDORN RANCH RD.




 Not to Scale

 LEGEND:

     1     = Study Intersection
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15%
           = Future Roadway

                                                                                                                                                                          Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis




                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRIP DISTRIBUTION
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_5                                                                                                                                                                              FIGURE 5
  8                                                                  9                                                                10                                                              11


                    Canada Valley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Slaten Ranch
                                                                                       SB Off-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                       NB On-ramp
        190 (175)




                                                                           410 (539)

                                                                           287 (416)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           24 (101)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           42 (114)
        34 (22)
        31 (56)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           35 (67)
                                                                                                         1x2xvc
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1x2x3
                                                     168 (253)                                                                                                                        245 (357)                                                        29 (55)




                                                                           6 (10)
                                                     1,119 (1,256)                                                    1,102 (1,440)                                                   738 (1,014)                                                      904 (986)
                                                     211 (480)                                                        72 (98)                                                         8 (21)                                                           54 (160)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            cvxvxvc                                                         1x2x3                                                            1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shady Willow Rd
                                                                                                         SB On-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                                        Jeffery Way
                                                                                  4x5xvc




                                                                                                                                                  4x5xvc
               4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6
      29 (54)                                                                                                                                                                                            74 (217)
                                                      76 (110)
                                                       14 (55)
                                                     184 (262)




                                                                                                                                                                                      418 (541)
                                                                                                                                                                                        29 (43)
                                                                                                                                                                                       79 (137)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39 (51)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         47 (76)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       191 (167)
  971 (1,586)                                                        848 (1,419)                                                      792 (1,540)                                                      614 (1,028)
    65 (100)                                                          483 (612)                                                        160 (373)                                                         91 (256)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
 12                                                                  13                                                               14                                                              15



                                                                                       Deer Valley Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vista Grande
                                                                                                                                                       Hillcrest Ave.
                    Empire Ave
        223 (289)

        105 (231)




                                                                           457 (191)
                                                                           353 (168)




                                                                                                                                           333 (153)

                                                                                                                                           401 (551)
        77 (115)




                                                                           17 (14)




                                                                                                                                           85 (77)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           41 (20)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           24 (42)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                         1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1x2x3
                                                     80 (129)                                                         185 (154)                                                       225 (369)                                                        37 (24)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           16 (9)
                                                     663 (772)                                                        921 (588)                                                       935 (868)                                                        1,119 (1,222)
                                                     81 (53)                                                          228 (238)                                                       24 (43)                                                          59 (121)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            1x2x3                                                           1x2x3                                                            1x2x3
               4x5x6




                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6
      247 (316)                                                            35 (87)                                                      216 (232)                                                          20 (18)
                                                     89 (76)
                                                     48 (46)
                                                     41 (36)




                                                                                                                      298 (205)
                                                                                                                      245 (365)
                                                                                                                      174 (241)




                                                                                                                                                                                      36 (17)
                                                                                                                                                                                      53 (87)
                                                                                                                                                                                      13 (26)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39 (35)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14 (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       123 (114)
      550 (809)                                                          689 (903)                                                    561 (1,029)                                                      884 (1,542)
       26 (112)                                                          164 (169)                                                        18 (22)                                                          30 (44)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
 16                                                                  18
                    Hillcrest Ave




                                                                                       Hillcrest Ave
        623 (543)




                                                                           561 (626)
                                                                           74 (162)
        26 (63)

        63 (89)




                                                                           80 (50)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                         1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cvxvxvc
                                                     117 (45)                                                         155 (133)
                                                     93 (50)                                                          67 (9)
                                                     84 (34)                                                          48 (35)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                              Country Hills Dr.
                                                 TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                      Laurel Rd.
                                                                                                                       TRUE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            1x2x3                                                           cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
                                    Hillcrest Ave.
               4x5x6




                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc
        44 (42)                                                           150 (17)
                                                       70 (73)
                                                     384 (514)
                                                       31 (49)




                                                                                                                        67 (27)
                                                                                                                      459 (535)
                                                                                                                        25 (39)




        77 (51)                                                             50 (7)
       143 (82)                                                           100 (22)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                         cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cvxvxvc
        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                          FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc

                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                         cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                        KEY:

        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                          FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        XX (YY) = AM (PM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                     Traffic
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Volumes



                                                                                                                                                                                             Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                                       NEAR-TERM NO PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                PEAK HOUR TURNING MOVEMENTS
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_6                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 6
  8                                                                  9                                                                10                                                              11


                    Canada Valley




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Slaten Ranch
                                                                                       SB Off-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                       NB On-ramp
        386 (305)




                                                                           435 (624)

                                                                           287 (416)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           24 (101)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           42 (114)
        94 (62)
        31 (56)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           35 (67)
                                                                                                         1x2xvc
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1x2x3
                                                     233 (474)                                                                                                                        245 (357)                                                        29 (55)




                                                                           6 (10)
                                                     1,119 (1,256)                                                    1,142 (1,576)                                                   763 (1,099)                                                      929 (1,071)
                                                     211 (480)                                                        72 (98)                                                         8 (21)                                                           54 (160)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            cvxvxvc                                                         1x2x3                                                            1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shady Willow Rd
                                                                                                         SB On-Ramp




                                                                                                                                                                        Jeffery Way
                                                                                  4x5xvc




                                                                                                                                                  4x5xvc
               4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6
    49 (122)                                                                                                                                                                                             74 (217)
                                                      76 (110)
                                                       14 (55)
                                                     184 (262)




                                                                                                                                                                                      433 (592)
                                                                                                                                                                                        29 (43)
                                                                                                                                                                                       79 (137)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39 (51)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         47 (76)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       191 (167)
  971 (1,586)                                                        998 (1,519)                                                      867 (1,590)                                                      689 (1,078)
    65 (100)                                                          528 (642)                                                        382 (428)                                                         91 (256)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
 12                                                                  13                                                               14                                                              15



                                                                                       Deer Valley Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vista Grande
                                                                                                                                                       Hillcrest Ave.
                    Empire Ave
        238 (340)

        105 (231)




                                                                           457 (191)
                                                                           353 (168)




                                                                                                                                           329 (153)

                                                                                                                                           405 (551)
        77 (115)




                                                                           17 (14)




                                                                                                                                           85 (77)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           41 (20)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           24 (42)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                         1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1x2x3
                                                     80 (129)                                                         185 (154)                                                       213 (369)                                                        37 (24)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           16 (9)
                                                     673 (806)                                                        981 (628)                                                       1,012 (908)                                                      1,179 (1,262)
                                                     81 (53)                                                          228 (238)                                                       24 (43)                                                          59 (121)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                                 Lone Tree Way
                                                    TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                     TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRUE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            1x2x3                                                           1x2x3                                                            1x2x3
               4x5x6




                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4x5x6
      292 (346)                                                            35 (87)                                                      218 (232)                                                          20 (18)
                                                     89 (76)
                                                     48 (46)
                                                     41 (36)




                                                                                                                      298 (205)
                                                                                                                      245 (365)
                                                                                                                      174 (241)




                                                                                                                                                                                      36 (17)
                                                                                                                                                                                      53 (87)
                                                                                                                                                                                      13 (26)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39 (35)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14 (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       123 (114)
      580 (829)                                                          709 (971)                                                    581 (1,097)                                                      904 (1,610)
       26 (112)                                                          164 (169)                                                        18 (22)                                                          30 (44)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            TRUE                                                           TRUE
                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
 16                                                                  18
                    Hillcrest Ave




                                                                                       Hillcrest Ave
        623 (543)




                                                                           576 (677)
        78 (140)




                                                                           74 (162)
        26 (63)




                                                                           80 (50)
                                    1x2x3




                                                                                                         1x2x3




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cvxvxvc
                                                     162 (75)                                                         155 (133)
                                                     93 (50)                                                          67 (9)
                                                     84 (34)                                                          48 (35)
        4x5x6
        TRUE
                                              Country Hills Dr.
                                                 TRUE
                                                                           4x5x6
                                                                           TRUE
                                                                                                                      Laurel Rd.
                                                                                                                       TRUE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     1x2x3                                                            1x2x3                                                           cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
                                    Hillcrest Ave.
               4x5x6




                                                                                  4x5x6




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc
        44 (42)                                                           150 (17)
                                                       70 (73)
                                                     384 (514)
                                                       31 (49)




                                                                                                                        67 (27)
                                                                                                                      504 (565)
                                                                                                                        25 (39)




        77 (51)                                                             50 (7)
       143 (82)                                                           100 (22)


                    TRUE                                                               TRUE                                                            FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                         cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cvxvxvc
        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                          FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                       FALSE
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc

                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE                                                          FALSE
                    FALSE                                                              FALSE                                                           FALSE
                                    cvxvxvc




                                                                                                         cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                        cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                        KEY:

        cvxvxvc
       FALSE                                         FALSE
                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                          FALSE                                        FALSE
                                                                                                                                           cvxvxvc
                                                                                                                                           FALSE                                      FALSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        XX (YY) = AM (PM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour
                                                     cvxvxvc                                                          cvxvxvc                                                         cvxvxvc                     Traffic
               cvxvxvc




                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                  cvxvxvc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Volumes



                                                                                                                                                                                             Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                                      NEAR-TERM WITH PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                PEAK HOUR TURNING MOVEMENTS
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_7                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 7
                                                                                                                   SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                                                                      NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
                                                        Country Hills Drive
 1                                                 2                                                        3                                              4


                                    Laurel Road                                              Laurel Road                                  Laurel Road                                        Laurel Road

              Canada Valley Road




                                                        Live Oak Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                      Canada Valley Road
              Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                 Empire Avenue
 5                                                 6                                                        7                                              8


                                    Laurel Road                                              Laurel Road                                  Laurel Road                                       Lone Tree Way

                                                        NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
             SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                 Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                                                                      Empire Avenue
 9                                                 10                                                       11                                            12


                                   Lone Tree Way                                            Lone Tree Way                                Lone Tree Way                                      Lone Tree Way
                                                                              Jeffrey Way
              Deer Valley Road




                                                                                                                 Vista Grande Drive.




                                                                                                                                                                      Hillcrest Avenue
13                                                 14                                                       15                                            16
                                                         Hillcrest Avenue




                                   Lone Tree Way                                            Lone Tree Way                                Lone Tree Way                                      Country Hills Drive




17                                                 18
                                                        Hillcrest Ave




                                    Laurel Road                                              Laurel Road                                                 LEGEND:
               Project Driveway




                                                                                                                                                               = Signalized
                                                                                                                                                                 Intersection
                                                                                                                                                               = Stop Sign
                                                                                                                                              Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                  YEAR 2025
                                                                                                       LANE GEOMETRIES AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_8                                                                                                  FIGURE 8
                                                                                                                                                                    SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
                                                                                             Country Hills Drive
 1                                                                2                                                                              3                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                      305 (471)

                                                                                                                                                      840 (720)
                                                                                                                                   30 (100)




                                                                      60 (40)
                                                                      30 (20)
                                                                      80 (50)
                                         649 (836)                                                                                 633 (1078)                                               420 (890)                                                   620 (730)




                                                                                                                                                      0 (0)
                                         238 (421)                                                                                 62 (182)                                                                                                             565 (959)

                                        Laurel Road                                                                               Laurel Road                                              Laurel Road                                                Laurel Road

                 Canada Valley Road
                                                                     40 (60)                                                                                                                                  155 (150)

                                          120 (40)

                                                     229 (278)




                                                                                                                                    160 (90)
                                                                                                                                      20 (0)
                                                                                                                                    217 (95)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5 (41)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100 (210)
953 (566)                                                          679 (636)                                                                       929 (770)                                                1615 (1340)
100 (150)                                                          420 (120)                                                                         46 (11)




                                                                                             Live Oak Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Canada Valley Road
                 Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                                                                  Empire Avenue
 5                                                                6                                                                              7                                                           8
     180 (410)
     130 (230)




                                                                      310 (290)




                                                                                                                                                      345 (413)
                                                                                                                                                      310 (300)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   328 (229)
                                         320 (220)                                                                                 90 (50)                                                  140 (50)                                                    249 (464)




                                                                                  60 (130)
     40 (110)




                                                                                                                                                      40 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26 (84)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10 (20)
                                         975 (969)                                                                                 1245 (1159)                                              850 (686)                                                   1460 (1090)
                                         260 (260)                                                                                                                                          70 (50)                                                     260 (530)

                                        Laurel Road                                                                               Laurel Road                                              Laurel Road                                               Lone Tree Way


  160 (100)                                                        290 (340)                                                                       285 (420)                                                    42 (69)
                                          170 (610)
                                          250 (270)
                                          160 (290)




                                                                                                                                                                                             140 (110)
                                                                                                                                                                                             220 (360)
                                                                                                                                                                                               10 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50 (220)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10 (20)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         160 (360)
 925 (1160)                                                       925 (1340)                                                                       650 (890)                                                 950 (1710)
  630 (290)                                                                                                                                         50 (160)                                                    20 (60)
                                                                                             NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
                 SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                                                                  Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Empire Avenue
 9                                                               10                                                                              11                                                         12
     200 (240)

     723 (849)




                                                                                                                                                      280 (570)
                                                                                                                                                      150 (550)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100 (220)
                                                                                                                                   714 (711)                                                50 (60)                                                     340 (160)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   90 (220)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   90 (310)
                                                                                                                                                      10 (80)
                                         1769 (1844)                                                                               1655 (1695)                                              1690 (1476)                                                 1200 (926)
     0 (0)




                                         160 (380)                                                                                 70 (60)                                                  70 (50)                                                     30 (20)

                                       Lone Tree Way                                                                             Lone Tree Way                                            Lone Tree Way                                              Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                   Jeffrey Way




                                                                                                                                                   460 (470)                                                  220 (160)
                                                                                                                                    274 (530)
                                                                                                                                      10 (50)
                                                                                                                                    250 (340)




                                                                                                                                                                                             500 (400)
                                                                                                                                                                                             500 (370)
                                                                                                                                                                                               30 (80)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         510 (440)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         200 (120)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20 (40)
1156 (2051)                                                      1580 (2620)                                                                     1110 (1970)                                                 680 (1370)
  282 (368)                                                        300 (280)                                                                       240 (530)                                                  260 (600)
                 Deer Valley Road




                                                                                                                                                                  Vista Grande Drive.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hillcrest Avenue
13                                                               14                                                                              15                                                         16
                                                                                             Hillcrest Avenue
     100 (150)
     380 (510)
     340 (310)




                                                                      464 (446)

                                                                      380 (580)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   734 (916)
                                         360 (160)                                                                                 400 (480)                                                140 (90)                                                    60 (90)
                                                                      40 (120)




                                                                                                                                                      60 (170)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80 (110)
                                                                                                                                                      20 (40)
                                                                                                                                                      70 (70)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30 (80)
                                         1320 (1400)                                                                               1256 (1174)                                              1316 (1204)                                                 60 (50)
                                         200 (190)                                                                                 40 (100)                                                 170 (300)                                                   110 (120)

                                       Lone Tree Way                                                                             Lone Tree Way                                            Lone Tree Way                                              Country Hills Drive


  110 (320)                                                        288 (703)                                                                      110 (190)                                                       70 (70)
                                          450 (260)
                                          520 (400)
                                          220 (180)




                                                                                                                                    80 (50)
                                                                                                                                    70 (70)
                                                                                                                                    80 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                             300 (320)
                                                                                                                                                                                               20 (50)
                                                                                                                                                                                             130 (220)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100 (100)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         708 (1053)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150 (70)
 700 (1782)                                                       792 (1619)                                                                     892 (1649)                                                       40 (20)
  160 (190)                                                          30 (80)                                                                      220 (390)                                                      50 (100)




18
                 Hillcrest Way
     120 (220)
     860 (910)
     315 (273)




                                         195 (240)
                                         100 (120)
                                         254 (356)

                                        Laurel Road                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND:

  170 (140)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          xx (yy) = AM (PM)
                                            90 (90)
                                          900 (970)
                                          358 (283)




    90 (80)                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Traffic
  110 (110)



                                                                                                                                                                                                Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                                                 YEAR 2025 NO PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                          PEAK HOUR TURNING MOVEMENT
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_9                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 9
                                                                                                                                                                           SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
                                                                                                      Country Hills Drive
 1                                                                         2                                                                              3                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                               340 (590)

                                                                                                                                                               840 (720)
                                                                                                                                            30 (100)                                                                                                           620 (730)




                                                                               60 (40)
                                                                               30 (20)
                                                                               80 (50)
                                                  670 (850)                                                                                 660 (1170)                                             450 (990)                                                   580 (1010)




                                                                                                                                                               0 (0)
                                                  260 (490)                                                                                 100 (310)

                                                 Laurel Road                                                                               Laurel Road                                            Laurel Road                                                Laurel Road

                          Canada Valley Road
                                                                              40 (60)

                                                   120 (40)

                                                              290 (320)




                                                                                                                                               160 (90)
                                                                                                                                                20 (10)
                                                                                                                                             330 (170))




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20 (90)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100 (210)
960 (590)                                                                   760 (690)                                                                     1080 (870)                                                 260 (220)
100 (150)                                                                   420 (120)                                                                        90 (40)                                               1660 (1370)




                                                                                                      Live Oak Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Canada Valley Road
                          Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                                                                           Empire Avenue
 5                                                                         6                                                                              7                                                         8
     180 (410)
     130 (230)




                                                                               310 (290)




                                                                                                                                                               350 (430)
                                                                                                                                                               310 (300)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          360 (250)
                                                  320 (220)                                                                                 90 (50)                                                140 (50)                                                    260 (500)




                                                                                           60 (130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80 (120)
     40 (110)




                                                                                                                                                               40 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 (20)
                                                  990 (1020)                                                                                1260 (1210)                                            860 (720)                                                   1460 (1090)
                                                  260 (260)                                                                                                                                        70 (50)                                                     260 (530)

                                                 Laurel Road                                                                               Laurel Road                                            Laurel Road                                               Lone Tree Way


  160 (100)                                                                 290 (340)                                                                       300 (430)                                                 60 (130)
                                                   170 (610)
                                                   250 (270)
                                                   160 (290)




                                                                                                                                                                                                    140 ( 110)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    220 (360)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50 (220)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10 (20)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                160 (360)
 970 (1190)                                                                970 (1370)                                                                       680 (910)                                               950 (1710)
  630 (290)                                                                                                                                                  50 (160)                                                  20 (60)
                                                                                                      NB SR4 Bypass Ramps
                          SB SR4 Bypass Ramps




                                                                                                                                                                           Slatten Ranch Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Empire Avenue
 9                                                                        10                                                                              11                                                       12
     200 (240)

     740 (860)




                                                                                                                                                               280 (570)
                                                                                                                                                               150 (550)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100 (220)
                                                                                                                                            720 (730)                                              50 (60)                                                     340 (160)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90 (220)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90 (310)
                                                                                                                                                               10 (80)
                                                  1780 (1880)                                                                               1660 (1710)                                            1700 (1510)                                                 1210 (960)
     0 (0)




                                                  160 (380)                                                                                 70 (60)                                                70 (50)                                                     30 (20)

                                                Lone Tree Way                                                                             Lone Tree Way                                          Lone Tree Way                                              Lone Tree Way
                                                                                                                            Jeffrey Way




                                                                                                                                                            460 (470)                                                220 (160)
                                                                                                                                             280 (550)
                                                                                                                                               10 (50)
                                                                                                                                             250 (340)




                                                                                                                                                                                                    500 (400)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    500 (370)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      30 (80)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                510 (440)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                200 (120)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20 (40)
1170 (2060)                                                               1610 (2640)                                                                     1140 (1990)                                               710 (1390)
  300 (380)                                                                 300 (280)                                                                       240 (530)                                                260 (600)
                          Deer Valley Road




                                                                                                                                                                           Vista Grande Drive.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hillcrest Avenue
13                                                                        14                                                                              15                                                       16
                                                                                                      Hillcrest Avenue
     100 (150)
     380 (510)
     340 (310)




                                                                               470 (450)

                                                                               380 (580)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          740 (920)
                                                  360 (160)                                                                                 400 (480)                                              140 (90)                                                    60 (90)
                                                                               40 (120)




                                                                                                                                                               60 (170)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80 (110)
                                                                                                                                                               20 (40)
                                                                                                                                                               70 (70)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30 (80)
                                                  1380 (1440)                                                                               1310 (1210)                                            1370 (1240)                                                 60 (50)
                                                  200 (190)                                                                                 40 (100)                                               170 (300)                                                   110 (120)

                                                Lone Tree Way                                                                             Lone Tree Way                                          Lone Tree Way                                              Country Hills Drive


  110 (320)                                                                 290 (710)                                                                      110 (190)                                                     70 (70)
                                                   450 (260)
                                                   520 (400)
                                                   220 (180)




                                                                                                                                             80 (50)
                                                                                                                                             70 (70)
                                                                                                                                             80 (60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                    300 (320)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      20 (50)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    130 (220)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100 (100)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                710 (1060)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  150 (70)
 720 (1850)                                                                810 (1680)                                                                     910 (1710)                                                     40 (20)
  160 (190)                                                                   30 (80)                                                                      220 (390)                                                    50 (100)




17                                                                        18
                         Tree Line Way




                                                                                                      Hillcrest Way
                                                                               120 (220)
                                                                               860 (910)
                                                                               320 (290)




                                                  20 (50)                                                                                   210 (250)
     20 (20)

               40 (25)




                                                  916 (1322)                                                                                100 (210)
                                                  10 (35)                                                                                   260 (350)

                                                 Laurel Road                                                                               Laurel Road                                                           LEGEND:

   10 (20)                                                                  170 (140)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 xx (yy) = AM (PM)
                                                   12 (8)

                                                              32 (21)




                                                                                                                                               90 (90)
                                                                                                                                             900 (970)
                                                                                                                                             360 (290)




1234 (890)                                                                    90 (80)                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Traffic
    5 (14)                                                                  110 (110)


                                                                                                                                                                                                       Davidon Homes Transportation Analysis


                                                                                                                                                                       YEAR 2025 WITH PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                PEAK HOUR TURNING MOVEMENTS
November 2008
Graphics\Nov08 Update\WC05-2153_10                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 10
    APPENDIX A:

Existing Traffic Counts
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        CANADA VALLEY
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715              14           8          33           30        126       23        5            5        7           7        111            4       373
715-730               8           6          37           27        166       25        8            3        7           6        120            1       414
730-745              10           5          44           33        237       37        5            0        7           9        134            4       525
745-800              10          10          61           55        289       32       14            3        4          13        205            3       699
800-815              11           7          57           50        211       38       12            1        6          10        162           10       575
815-830               5          10          41           39        267       69       11            6       10          13        193            9       673
830-845               8           4          31           24        238       27       14            4       16          16        186            7       575
845-900               5           2          48           21        205       71       11            4       16          10        197            4       594
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800              42          29         175          145        818      117       32           11       25          35        570           12      2011
715-815              39          28         199          165        903      132       39            7       24          38        621           18      2213
730-830              36          32         203          177       1004      176       42           10       27          45        694           26      2472
745-845              34          31         190          168       1005      166       51           14       36          52        746           29      2522
800-900              29          23         177          134        921      205       48           15       48          49        738           30      2417

 AM PEAK HOUR:     745-845
                                                                                            168

                                           34          31         190                       1005

                                                                                            166



                                                29

LONE TREE WAY                               746                             36       14           51

                                                52                                 CANADA VALLEY



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          3           1           0           4          700-715                       0          0           1          0           1
715-730                  0          0           0           0           0          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          1           0           0           1          730-745                       0          0           0          0           0
745-800                  0          0           0           0           0          745-800                       1          0           1          1           3
800-815                  0          0           0           0           0          800-815                       1          0           1          0           2
815-830                  1          1           0           0           2          815-830                       1          0           1          0           2
830-845                  0          0           1           0           1          830-845                       1          1           2          0           4
845-900                  0          0           0           0           0          845-900                       1          1           0          0           2
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  0          4           1           0           5          700-800                       1          0           2          1            4
715-815                  0          1           0           0           1          715-815                       2          0           2          1            5
730-830                  1          2           0           0           3          730-830                       3          0           3          1            7
745-845                  1          1           1           0           3          745-845                       4          1           5          1           11
800-900                  1          1           1           0           3          800-900                       4          2           4          0           10
WILTEC                                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        CANADA VALLEY
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3            4          5         6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415               9          11          51           58        252        66       41           18       20          14         329          12       881
415-430               9          13          40           41        255        57       29           20       15          10         323          12       824
430-445              11          11          49           42        245        69       34           10       21          10         300           9       811
445-500               9          14          64           55        235        79       50            8       19          20         344           7       904
500-515               7          15          42           52        234        92       22           15       10          14         310          15       828
515-530               6          20          45           76        222        77       55           12       20          16         371           8       928
530-545               4          13          46           49        227        74       36           12       26          15         360          17       879
545-600               5           8          42           76        259        86       60           16       28          10         313          14       917
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3            4          5         6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500              38          49         204          196        987       271      154           56       75          54        1296          40      3420
415-515              36          53         195          190        969       297      135           53       65          54        1277          43      3367
430-530              33          60         200          225        936       317      161           45       70          60        1325          39      3471
445-545              26          62         197          232        918       322      163           47       75          65        1385          47      3539
500-600              22          56         175          253        942       329      173           55       84          55        1354          54      3552

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                             253

                                           22          56         175                        942

                                                                                             329



                                                54

LONE TREE WAY                              1354                              84       55       173

                                                55                                  CANADA VALLEY



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  2          0            0          4            6          400-415                       0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  2          0            2          1            5          415-430                       0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          3            2          0            5          430-445                       0          0           0          0           0
445-500                  1          0            0          0            1          445-500                       0          0           0          1           1
500-515                  1          2            0          0            3          500-515                       0          0           2          0           2
515-530                  0          0            2          1            3          515-530                       0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  0          0            2          0            2          530-545                       0          0           2          0           2
545-600                  1          0            6          0            7          545-600                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  5          3            4          5           17          400-500                       0          0           0          1           1
415-515                  4          5            4          1           14          415-515                       0          0           2          1           3
430-530                  2          5            4          1           12          430-530                       0          0           2          1           3
445-545                  2          2            4          1            9          445-545                       0          0           4          1           5
500-600                  2          2           10          1           15          500-600                       0          0           4          0           4
WILTEC                                                                                                     Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR-4 BYPASS
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3          4           5        6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715              33           1          35          0         131       13        0           0        0          60         56            0       329
715-730              57           1          41          0         187       21        0           0        0         114         84            0       505
730-745              89           1          54          0         202       13        0           0        0          81        101            0       541
745-800             106           3          81          0         261       23        0           0        0         100        170            0       744
800-815              84           0          78          0         255       18        0           0        0         103        152            0       690
815-830              95           1          65          0         267       11        0           0        0          93        111            0       643
830-845              68           2          63          0         217       20        0           0        0         105        138            0       613
845-900              75           0          56          0         237        9        0           0        0         116        136            0       629
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3          4           5        6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800             285           6         211          0         781       70        0           0        0         355        411            0      2119
715-815             336           5         254          0         905       75        0           0        0         398        507            0      2480
730-830             374           5         278          0         985       65        0           0        0         377        534            0      2618
745-845             353           6         287          0        1000       72        0           0        0         401        571            0      2690
800-900             322           3         262          0         976       58        0           0        0         417        537            0      2575

 AM PEAK HOUR:     745-845
                                                                                           0

                                          353         6          287                       1000

                                                                                           72



                                                0

LONE TREE WAY                               571                            0         0          0

                                            401                                   SR-4 BYPASS



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           1          0           1          700-715                      0          0           0          0           0
715-730                  0          0           0          0           0          715-730                      0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          0           0          0           0          730-745                      1          0           0          0           1
745-800                  0          0           0          0           0          745-800                      1          0           0          0           1
800-815                  1          0           0          0           1          800-815                      1          0           1          0           2
815-830                  0          0           0          0           0          815-830                      0          0           1          0           1
830-845                  1          0           0          0           1          830-845                      1          0           0          0           1
845-900                  0          0           0          0           0          845-900                      2          0           0          0           2
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  0          0           1          0           1          700-800                      2          0           0          0           2
715-815                  1          0           0          0           1          715-815                      3          0           1          0           4
730-830                  1          0           0          0           1          730-830                      3          0           2          0           5
745-845                  2          0           0          0           2          745-845                      3          0           2          0           5
800-900                  2          0           0          0           2          800-900                      4          0           2          0           6
WILTEC                                                                                                     Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR-4 BYPASS
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3          4           5        6        7           8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415              84           2          80          0         322       35        0           0        0         129         285           0       937
415-430              83           3         125          0         280       35        0           0        0         141         266           0       933
430-445              88           0         109          0         300       33        0           0        0         111         245           0       886
445-500              84           4         102          0         260       18        0           0        0         156         306           0       930
500-515              97           3         122          0         289       22        0           0        0         125         287           0       945
515-530              92           3          83          0         304       25        0           0        0         149         331           0       987
530-545              97           3          93          0         261       35        0           0        0         102         293           0       884
545-600              88           1         113          0         330       31        0           0        0          91         270           0       924
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3          4           5        6        7           8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500             339           9         416          0        1162      121        0           0        0         537        1102           0      3686
415-515             352          10         458          0        1129      108        0           0        0         533        1104           0      3694
430-530             361          10         416          0        1153       98        0           0        0         541        1169           0      3748
445-545             370          13         400          0        1114      100        0           0        0         532        1217           0      3746
500-600             374          10         411          0        1184      113        0           0        0         467        1181           0      3740

 AM PEAK HOUR:     430-530
                                                                                           0

                                          361         10         416                       1153

                                                                                           98



                                                0

LONE TREE WAY                              1169                            0         0          0

                                            541                                   SR-4 BYPASS



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  4          1           0          0           5          400-415                      0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  0          0           0          0           0          415-430                      0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          0           0          0           0          430-445                      0          0           0          0           0
445-500                  2          0           1          0           3          445-500                      0          0           1          0           1
500-515                  0          0           0          0           0          500-515                      0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           0          0           0          515-530                      0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  4          0           1          0           5          530-545                      0          0           2          0           2
545-600                  1          0           1          0           2          545-600                      0          0           1          0           1
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  6          1           1          0           8          400-500                      0          0           1          0           1
415-515                  2          0           1          0           3          415-515                      0          0           1          0           1
430-530                  2          0           1          0           3          430-530                      0          0           1          0           1
445-545                  6          0           2          0           8          445-545                      0          0           3          0           3
500-600                  5          0           2          0           7          500-600                      0          0           3          0           3
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MAY 13, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        JEFFREY WAY
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715               0           0           0           63        134        4        9            5       64          29         92            0       400
715-730               0           0           0           55        146        1       12            7       84          40        118            0       463
730-745               0           0           0           62        184        2       12            9       94          61        141            0       565
745-800               0           0           0           67        159        2       27            6       97          39        183            0       580
800-815               0           0           0           72        183        2       21           10      107          39        191            0       625
815-830               0           0           0           44        145        2       19            4       85          21        147            0       467
830-845               0           0           0           33        132        2       11            1       69          23        138            0       409
845-900               0           0           0           53        128        2       11            7       89          32        141            0       463
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800               0           0           0          247        623        9       60           27      339         169        534            0      2008
715-815               0           0           0          256        672        7       72           32      382         179        633            0      2233
730-830               0           0           0          245        671        8       79           29      383         160        662            0      2237
745-845               0           0           0          216        619        8       78           21      358         122        659            0      2081
800-900               0           0           0          202        588        8       62           22      350         115        617            0      1964

 AM PEAK HOUR:     730-830
                                                                                            245

                                           0           0           0                        671

                                                                                            8



                                                0

LONE TREE WAY                                  662                          383      29           79

                                               160                                 JEFFREY WAY



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           0           0           0          700-715                       0          0           1          0           1
715-730                  0          0           0           0           0          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          0           0           0           0          730-745                       1          0           0          0           1
745-800                  0          0           0           0           0          745-800                       1          0           0          0           1
800-815                  0          0           0           0           0          800-815                       1          0           1          0           2
815-830                  1          0           0           0           1          815-830                       1          0           1          0           2
830-845                  1          0           0           0           1          830-845                       0          0           0          0           0
845-900                  0          1           0           0           1          845-900                       3          0           1          0           4
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  0          0           0           0           0          700-800                       2          0           1          0           3
715-815                  0          0           0           0           0          715-815                       3          0           1          0           4
730-830                  1          0           0           0           1          730-830                       4          0           2          0           6
745-845                  2          0           0           0           2          745-845                       3          0           2          0           5
800-900                  2          1           0           0           3          800-900                       5          0           3          0           8
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MAY 13, 2008
PERIOD"                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        JEFFREY WAY
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415               0           0           0           66        215        4       24            6      125          63         359           0       862
415-430               0           0           0           85        226        9       21           10      116          63         355           1       886
430-445               0           0           0           70        207        9       20            9       87          71         307           0       780
445-500               0           0           0           78        199        6       36           15      104          72         331           0       841
500-515               0           0           0          100        236        3       45           10      135          61         368           0       958
515-530               0           0           0           79        191        8       25            8       96          58         336           1       802
530-545               0           0           0          100        205        4       31           10      102          73         369           0       894
545-600               0           0           0           95        183        6       35            8      108          51         350           0       836
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3            4          5        6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500               0           0           0          299        847       28      101           40      432         269        1352           1      3369
415-515               0           0           0          333        868       27      122           44      442         267        1361           1      3465
430-530               0           0           0          327        833       26      126           42      422         262        1342           1      3381
445-545               0           0           0          357        831       21      137           43      437         264        1404           1      3495
500-600               0           0           0          374        815       21      136           36      441         243        1423           1      3490

 AM PEAK HOUR:     445-545
                                                                                            357

                                           0           0           0                        831

                                                                                            21



                                                1

LONE TREE WAY                              1404                             437      43          137

                                               264                                 JEFFREY WAY



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  3          0           0           0           3          400-415                       0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  1          0           0           0           1          415-430                       0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          0           1           0           1          430-445                       1          0           0          0           1
445-500                  1          1           0           0           2          445-500                       0          0           3          0           3
500-515                  1          0           0           0           1          500-515                       0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           1           0           1          515-530                       0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  0          0           1           0           1          530-545                       0          0           0          0           0
545-600                  5          0           0           0           5          545-600                       0          0           1          0           1
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  5          1           1           0           7          400-500                       1          0           3          0           4
415-515                  3          1           1           0           5          415-515                       1          0           3          0           4
430-530                  2          1           2           0           5          430-530                       1          0           3          0           4
445-545                  2          1           2           0           5          445-545                       0          0           3          0           3
500-600                  6          0           2           0           8          500-600                       0          0           1          0           1
WILTEC                                                                                                      Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 22, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SHADY WILLOW RD/SLATTEN RANCH ROAD
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3          4           5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715               9           5          11          3         200        3       34            5       15          14         90            7       396
715-730               8           3          13          4         194       16       52           13       12          35        133           19       502
730-745               4           8           6          5         199       14       49           10       19          27        111           25       477
745-800               7          14          13         10         231        9       62           17        3          17        137           19       539
800-815               5          10          10         10         213       15       28            7        5          12        103           11       429
815-830              11           5          13          5         167       10       30            5        8          18        122           19       413
830-845               7           3          13          6         158       14       27           16        5          12         95           24       380
845-900              14           3          12          8         207        9       25           11        4          13        106           36       448
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3          4           5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800              28          30          43         22         824       42      197           45       49          93        471           70      1914
715-815              24          35          42         29         837       54      191           47       39          91        484           74      1947
730-830              27          37          42         30         810       48      169           39       35          74        473           74      1858
745-845              30          32          49         31         769       48      147           45       21          59        457           73      1761
800-900              37          21          48         29         745       48      110           39       22          55        426           90      1670

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                           29

                                          24          35         42                        837

                                                                                           54



                                               74

LONE TREE WAY                               484                            39       47          191

                                               91                                 SHADY WILLOW RD/SLATTEN RANCH ROAD



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           0          0           0          700-715                       1          0           0          0           1
715-730                  0          0           0          0           0          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          0           0          0           0          730-745                       0          0           1          0           1
745-800                  0          2           2          0           4          745-800                       0          0           0          0           0
800-815                  2          0           0          2           4          800-815                       0          0           0          1           1
815-830                  0          0           1          0           1          815-830                       0          0           0          0           0
830-845                  0          0           0          0           0          830-845                       0          0           2          0           2
845-900                  0          0           1          1           2          845-900                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  0          2           2          0           4          700-800                       1          0           1          0           2
715-815                  2          2           2          2           8          715-815                       0          0           1          1           2
730-830                  2          2           3          2           9          730-830                       0          0           1          1           2
745-845                  2          2           3          2           9          745-845                       0          0           2          1           3
800-900                  2          0           2          3           7          800-900                       0          0           2          1           3
WILTEC                                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                  KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                 ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                    THURSDAY MAY 22, 2008
PERIOD"                                  4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S         SHADY WILLOW RD/SLATTEN RANCH ROAD
                             E/W         LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                    ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2            3          4           5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415              34          22           39          3         229         8       36           16       10          71        226           35       729
415-430              21          19           32          6         215        26       41           13       10          48        213           25       669
430-445              28          19           30          6         199        22       38           14       13          38        215           32       654
445-500              32          12           27          4         235        31       46           23       18          63        213           39       743
500-515              26          19           17          5         206        32       44           20       12          80        226           41       728
515-530              29          11           29         15         187        25       46           17       10          55        195           50       669
530-545              27          20           30         15         207        41       44           16       10          60        236           70       776
545-600              19          17           38         20         203        62       33           23       19          61        235           56       786
HOUR TOTALS           1           2            3          4           5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500             115          72          128         19         878        87      161           66       51         220        867          131      2795
415-515             107          69          106         21         855       111      169           70       53         229        867          137      2794
430-530             115          61          103         30         827       110      174           74       53         236        849          162      2794
445-545             114          62          103         39         835       129      180           76       50         258        870          200      2916
500-600             101          67          114         55         803       160      167           76       51         256        892          217      2959

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                             55

                                           101         67         114                        803

                                                                                             160



                                             217

LONE TREE WAY                                892                             51       76          167

                                             256                                    SHADY WILLOW RD/SLATTEN RANCH ROAD



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  0           0           1          0            1          400-415                       2          0           0          0           2
415-430                  0           1           0          0            1          415-430                       0          1           0          0           1
430-445                  0           1           3          0            4          430-445                       0          0           1          0           1
445-500                  0           1           0          0            1          445-500                       1          1           0          1           3
500-515                  0           6           6          3           15          500-515                       0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0           0           0          0            0          515-530                       0          1           0          1           2
530-545                  0           0           1          0            1          530-545                       0          1           0          1           2
545-600                  2           5           0          0            7          545-600                       0          0           2          0           2
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  0           3           4          0            7          400-500                       3          2           1          1           7
415-515                  0           9           9          3           21          415-515                       1          2           1          1           5
430-530                  0           8           9          3           20          430-530                       1          2           1          2           6
445-545                  0           7           7          3           17          445-545                       1          3           0          3           7
500-600                  2          11           7          3           23          500-600                       0          2           2          2           6
WILTEC                                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 22, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        EMPIRE AVENUE
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4           5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715              29          16          27          21         128        17        8            8       18           6        102           38       418
715-730              36          21          33          28         168        28       12           16       31           6        123           63       565
730-745              46          19          30          21         149        23       13           13       23          11        145           36       529
745-800              50          18          13          17         168        19       14           14       19           6        125           31       494
800-815              49          19          29          14         153        11        2            5       16           3        106           38       445
815-830              42          15          24          19         139        15        3           12       18          10        120           41       458
830-845              31          27          30          10         122        15        5            9       19          18        112           41       439
845-900              42          23          26          14         134        15        3            4       15          10         99           31       416
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4           5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800             161          74         103          87         613        87       47           51       91          29        495          168      2006
715-815             181          77         105          80         638        81       41           48       89          26        499          168      2033
730-830             187          71          96          71         609        68       32           44       76          30        496          146      1926
745-845             172          79          96          60         582        60       24           40       72          37        463          151      1836
800-900             164          84         109          57         548        56       13           30       68          41        437          151      1758

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                             80

                                          181          77         105                        638

                                                                                             81



                                            168

LONE TREE WAY                               499                              89       48           41

                                                26                                  EMPIRE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  1          0           2           0            3          700-715                       1          0           0          0           1
715-730                  1          1           1           0            3          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          0           0           0            0          730-745                       0          0           0          0           0
745-800                  0          0           0           0            0          745-800                       0          0           0          0           0
800-815                  3          0           2           0            5          800-815                       2          0           0          0           2
815-830                  0          0           5           4            9          815-830                       0          0           0          0           0
830-845                  0          0           7           3           10          830-845                       0          0           1          1           2
845-900                  0          0           0           2            2          845-900                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  2          1           3           0            6          700-800                       1          0           0          0           1
715-815                  4          1           3           0            8          715-815                       2          0           0          0           2
730-830                  3          0           3           4            7          730-830                       2          0           0          0           2
745-845                  3          0           4           7           14          745-845                       2          0           1          1           4
800-900                  3          0           4           9           16          800-900                       2          0           1          1           4
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 22, 2008
PERIOD"                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        EMPIRE AVENUE
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4          5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415              37          29          44          31        152        20        6           14       18          20        212           78       661
415-430              45          34          62          32        134        16        8           10       18          17        198           63       637
430-445              53          30          71          21        180        21        6            6       14          24        173           63       662
445-500              46          26          43          28        169        21        4           14       26          24        197           63       661
500-515              44          27          57          36        179        15        9           17       22          26        172           75       679
515-530              34          33          63          34        177        11        5            6       17          26        180           50       636
530-545              53          28          57          21        179        14       12           11       18          29        212           45       679
545-600              45          27          54          38        167        13       10           12       19          31        195           60       671
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4          5         6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500             181         119         220         112        635        78       24           44       76          85        780          267      2621
415-515             188         117         233         117        662        73       27           47       80          91        740          264      2639
430-530             177         116         234         119        705        68       24           43       79         100        722          251      2638
445-545             177         114         220         119        704        61       30           48       83         105        761          233      2655
500-600             176         115         231         129        702        53       36           46       76         112        759          230      2665

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                            129

                                          176        115         231                        702

                                                                                            53



                                            230

LONE TREE WAY                               759                             76       46           36

                                            112                                    EMPIRE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  0          0           0          0           0           400-415                       0          2           0          0           2
415-430                  1          1           0          0           2           415-430                       0          1           0          0           1
430-445                  0          1           0          4           5           430-445                       0          3           0          0           3
445-500                  0          4           0          0           4           445-500                       0          0           0          1           1
500-515                  0          1           0          0           1           500-515                       0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           0          0           0           515-530                       0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  0          1           0          0           1           530-545                       0          0           0          0           0
545-600                  0          0           0          0           0           545-600                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  1          6           0          4           11          400-500                       0          6           0          1           7
415-515                  1          7           0          4           12          415-515                       0          4           0          1           5
430-530                  0          6           0          4           10          430-530                       0          3           0          1           4
445-545                  0          6           0          0            6          445-545                       0          0           0          1           1
500-600                  0          2           0          0            2          500-600                       0          0           0          0           0
WILTEC                                                                                               Phone: (626) 564-1944      Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                  KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                 ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                    THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                  7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION: N/S        DEER VALLEY ROAD
              E/W        LONE TREE WAY



15 MIN COUNTS      1               2      3       4        5        6       7        8        9      10       11        12                 TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT           SBTH    SBLT    WBRT    WBTH      WBLT    NBRT     NBTH     NBLT    EBRT    EBTH       EBLT
700-715            5              54     26       6      113       17       2       25       48      25       62         1                       384
715-730            1              90     42      12      140       30       4       36       52      42       88         4                       541
730-745            9              94     70      25      192       27      17       55       55      32      116         5                       697
745-800            4             122    107      51      226       42      37       61       79      52      195        12                       988
800-815            3             129     83      46      230       46      19       81       73      29      124         9                       872
815-830            4             112     75      36      195       49      26       61       57      29      146         9                       799
830-845            6              94     88      52      182       48      29       42       70      47      179         5                       842
845-900            2              78    104      68      158       54      42       68       64      35      160        17                       850
HOUR TOTALS
700-800             19          360      245      94     671       116      60     177       234    151      461           22                2610
715-815             17          435      302     134     788       145      77     233       259    155      523           30                3098
730-830             20          457      335     158     843       164      99     258       264    142      581           35                3356
745-845             17          457      353     185     833       185     111     245       279    157      644           35                3501
800-900             15          413      350     202     765       197     116     252       264    140      609           40                3363

AM PEAK HOUR                                                                             PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   745-845                                                                               PERIOD         NORTH       EAST        SOUTH     WEST
                               17      457     353                         185           15 MIN COUNTS  LEG         LEG         LEG       LEG
                                                                                         700-715                1          0          3           2
                                                                           833           715-730                0          0          4           3
                                                                                         730-745                0          5         13          13
                                                                           185           745-800                3          8          4           1
                                                                                         800-815                0          1         16           6
                                                                                         815-830                1          5         10           6
                         35                                                              830-845                0          6         21          10
                                                                                         845-900                0          4          9           0
LONE TREE WAY            644                                                             HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                         700-800                4          13        24          19
                         157                             279       245     111           715-815                3          14        37          23
                                                                                         730-830                4          19        43          26
                                                               DEER VALLEY ROAD          745-845                4          20        51          23
                                                                                         800-900                1          16        56          22
WILTEC                                                                                               Phone: (626) 564-1944      Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                  KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                 ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                    THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                  4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION: N/S        DEER VALLEY ROAD
              E/W        LONE TREE WAY



15 MIN COUNTS      1              2      3       4        5        6       7         8        9      10       11        12                   TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT           SBTH   SBLT    WBRT    WBTH      WBLT    NBRT     NBTH      NBLT    EBRT    EBTH       EBLT
400-415            3             52     35      44      118       33      40        93       76      50      224        18                         786
415-430            3             43     31      36      122       25      34        81       34      38      203        24                         674
430-445            7             39     47      50      113       35      45        97       58      33      211        10                         745
445-500            5             44     42      38      108       24      26        82       45      36      203        14                         667
500-515            6             46     27      36      117       43      44       105       48      31      188        16                         707
515-530            2             56     38      43      122       39      42        91       46      45      200        28                         752
530-545            3             48     60      37      118       35      42        97       57      28      196        28                         749
545-600            3             41     43      38      140       34      40        63       41      43      196        15                         697
HOUR TOTALS
400-500             18          178     155     168     461       117     145     353        213    157      841           66                  2872
415-515             21          172     147     160     460       127     149     365        185    138      805           64                  2793
430-530             20          185     154     167     460       141     157     375        197    145      802           68                  2871
445-545             16          194     167     154     465       141     154     375        196    140      787           86                  2875
500-600             14          191     168     154     497       151     168     356        192    147      780           87                  2905

PM PEAK HOUR                                                                             PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   500-600                                                                               PERIOD         NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST
                               14     191     168                         154            15 MIN COUNTS  LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG
                                                                                         400-415                0          9            2           2
                                                                          497            415-430                8          2            2           1
                                                                                         430-445                0          0            2           0
                                                                          151            445-500                0          0            0           2
                                                                                         500-515                0          0            8           0
                                                                                         515-530                2          3            3           0
                         87                                                              530-545                0          0            1           0
                                                                                         545-600                0          0            1           1
LONE TREE WAY            780                                                             HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                         400-500                8          11         6             5
                         147                            192       356     168            415-515                8           2        12             3
                                                                                         430-530                2           3        13             2
                                                              DEER VALLEY ROAD           445-545                2           3        12             2
                                                                                         500-600                2           3        13             1
WILTEC                                                                                                                                   Phone: (626) 564-1944     Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                           KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                          ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                             THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIODS:                          7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM AND           4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:          N/S        HILLCREST AVENUE
                       E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                             ANTIOCH

15 MIN COUNTS                                            7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
                   1         2         3      4      5          6       7        8      9     10     11     12
PERIOD          SBRT    SBTH        SBLT   WBRT   WBTH     WBLT     NBRT      NBTH   NBLT   EBRT   EBTH   EBLT   TOTAL      AM PEAK HOUR
700-715           18         8        52     38    116          1       2       20      5      2     75      7     344         745-845                                    160
715-730           34         7        38     17    151          4       4        8      2      2     66      8     341
730-745           47         12       39     23    212          3       1       18      6      4     92     11     468                   269       85   279               862
745-800           80         29       70     41    240          5       5       16     10      4    136     54     690
800-815           57         20       74     41    217         10       5       17     10      3    128     61     643                                                    24
815-830           46         11       72     46    218          5       2       12      7      7    114     32     572
830-845           86         25       63     32    187          4       1        8      9      4    117     30     566
845-900           90         30       78     41    172          3       9        6     14      3    138     55     639                     177
HOUR TOTALS
                   1         2         3      4      5          6       7        8      9     10     11     12           LONE TREE WAY     495                36     53        13
TIME            SBRT    SBTH        SBLT   WBRT   WBTH     WBLT     NBRT      NBTH   NBLT   EBRT   EBTH   EBLT   TOTAL
700-800          179         56      199    119    719         13      12       62     23     12    369     80    1843                        18
715-815          218         68      221    122    820         22      15       59     28     13    422    134    2142                                             HILLCREST AVENUE
730-830          230         72      255    151    887         23      13       63     33     18    470    158    2373
745-845          269         85      279    160    862         24      13       53     36     18    495    177    2471
800-900          279         86      287    160    794         22      17       43     40     17    497    178    2420


15 MIN COUNTS                                            4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
                   1         2         3      4      5          6       7        8      9     10     11     12
PERIOD          SBRT    SBTH        SBLT   WBRT   WBTH     WBLT     NBRT      NBTH   NBLT   EBRT   EBTH   EBLT   TOTAL      PM PEAK HOUR
400-415           15         16       99     51    172          9       6       13      7     11    238     37     674         415-515                                    229
415-430            9         21       79     57    179         10       8       31      7      8    203     23     635
430-445           37         21      105     47    179          6      10       17      5      5    247     45     724                   97        77   423               720
445-500           19         12      112     54    161          8       3       17      2      6    211     34     639
500-515           32         23      127     71    201         19       5       22      3      3    254     29     789                                                    43
515-530           14         15       91     38    138         11       1       19      4      3    209     24     567
530-545           16         28       95     51    144         12       9       25     11      7    231     26     655
545-600           22         27       74     52    193         12       6       21      4     13    193     37     654                     131
HOUR TOTALS
                   1         2         3      4      5          6       7        8      9     10     11     12           LONE TREE WAY     915                17     87        26
TIME            SBRT    SBTH        SBLT   WBRT   WBTH     WBLT     NBRT      NBTH   NBLT   EBRT   EBTH   EBLT   TOTAL
400-500           80         70      395    209    691         33      27       78     21     30    899    139    2672                        22
415-515           97         77      423    229    720         43      26       87     17     22    915    131    2787                                             HILLCREST AVENUE
430-530          102         71      435    210    679         44      19       75     14     17    921    132    2719
445-545           81         78      425    214    644         50      18       83     20     19    905    113    2650
500-600           84         93      387    212    676         54      21       87     22     26    887    116    2665
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        VISTA GRANDE DRIVE
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4           5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715               5           1           3           1         127        3       15            2       11           1         85            2       256
715-730              11           1           0           1         156       11       25            4       10           3        115            3       340
730-745              13           4           5           5         235       11       31            4       11           2        148            9       478
745-800              23           1           8           3         255       11       34            5       17           4        179            1       541
800-815              20           8          15           5         230       11       30            6       14           8        154            5       506
815-830               7           5           2           9         237       14       28            2       11           4        156            2       477
830-845               5           3           2          11         251       11       30            3       11          10        183            6       526
845-900               9           0           5          12         249       23       35            3        3           8        200            7       554
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4           5        6        7            8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800              52           7          16          10         773       36      105           15       49          10        527           15      1615
715-815              67          14          28          14         876       44      120           19       52          17        596           18      1865
730-830              63          18          30          22         957       47      123           17       53          18        637           17      2002
745-845              55          17          27          28         973       47      122           16       53          26        672           14      2050
800-900              41          16          24          37         967       59      123           14       39          30        693           20      2063

 AM PEAK HOUR:     800-900
                                                                                            37

                                           41          16         24                        967

                                                                                            59



                                                20

LONE TREE WAY                               693                             39       14          123

                                                30                                 VISTA GRANDE DRIVE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           0           1           1          700-715                       0          0           1          0           1
715-730                  2          0           0           0           2          715-730                       0          0           0          0           0
730-745                  1          1           2           1           5          730-745                       0          0           0          0           0
745-800                  0          0           0           1           1          745-800                       1          0           0          0           1
800-815                  0          0           0           0           0          800-815                       1          0           1          1           3
815-830                  0          0           0           0           0          815-830                       0          0           1          0           1
830-845                  0          0           0           0           0          830-845                       1          0           1          1           3
845-900                  0          0           0           0           0          845-900                       1          0           0          0           1
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  3          1           2           3           9          700-800                       1          0           1          0           2
715-815                  3          1           2           2           8          715-815                       2          0           1          1           4
730-830                  1          1           2           2           6          730-830                       2          0           2          1           5
745-845                  0          0           0           1           1          745-845                       3          0           3          2           8
800-900                  0          0           0           0           0          800-900                       3          0           3          2           8
WILTEC                                                                                                        Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                                ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                                   THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD"                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        VISTA GRANDE DRIVE
                             E/W        LONE TREE WAY
CITY:                                   ANTIOCH

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4           5         6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415               6           2           4           7         218        33       29            4        8          19         309          10       649
415-430               4           1           8           8         183        29       34            4       10          11         296           5       593
430-445               3           1           7           7         198        21       29            3       10          10         329           9       627
445-500               6           0          11           8         229        28       27            2       12          10         312           5       650
500-515               6           3          15           6         250        29       31            2       10          15         315           3       685
515-530               2           2           8           7         247        31       24            2        7           9         327           5       671
530-545               6           4           8           3         205        33       32            4        6          10         328           5       644
545-600               8           2           6           5         232        29       33            6       11           6         267           9       614
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4           5         6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500              19           4          30          30         828       111      119           13       40          50        1246          29      2519
415-515              19           5          41          29         860       107      121           11       42          46        1252          22      2555
430-530              17           6          41          28         924       109      111            9       39          44        1283          22      2633
445-545              20           9          42          24         931       121      114           10       35          44        1282          18      2650
500-600              22          11          37          21         934       122      120           14       34          40        1237          22      2614

 AM PEAK HOUR:     445-545
                                                                                             24

                                           20          9          42                         931

                                                                                             121



                                                18

LONE TREE WAY                              1282                              35       10          114

                                                44                                  VISTA GRANDE DRIVE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  0          2           0           0           2           400-415                       0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  0          1           0           0           1           415-430                       0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          1           2           1           4           430-445                       1          1           0          0           2
445-500                  0          1           2           0           3           445-500                       0          0           3          0           3
500-515                  2          0           0           0           2           500-515                       0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           0           0           0           515-530                       1          0           0          2           3
530-545                  1          2           0           0           3           530-545                       0          0           0          0           0
545-600                  1          0           0           0           1           545-600                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  0          5           4           1           10          400-500                       1          1           3          0           5
415-515                  2          3           4           1           10          415-515                       1          1           3          0           5
430-530                  2          2           4           1            9          430-530                       2          1           3          2           8
445-545                  3          3           2           0            8          445-545                       1          0           3          2           6
500-600                  4          2           0           0            6          500-600                       1          0           0          2           3
WILTEC                                                                                                  Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                    KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                   ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                      THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                    7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION: N/S          HILLCREST AVENUE
              E/W          COUNTRY HILLS DRIVE



15 MIN COUNTS      1                 2      3          4      5        6       7        8        9      10      11        12                 TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT             SBTH    SBLT       WBRT   WBTH     WBLT    NBRT     NBTH     NBLT    EBRT    EBTH      EBLT
700-715            4                46      6         21      2        3       0       41        1      13       6         5                       148
715-730            7                60      8         28      9       10       4       50       11      19       7        16                       229
730-745            3                70     19         36     18       14       5       69        7      26       7        14                       288
745-800            4               105     25         37     32       33       9       62       18      39      33        15                       412
800-815            5               118     22         47     41       21      10       95       22      28      28        12                       449
815-830           10               113      7         20     14       16       4       69       18      40      12        11                       334
830-845            7               103      9         13      6       14       8       71       12      36       4         6                       289
845-900            5               125      4         11      2       13       5       62       18      31       7        10                       293
HOUR TOTALS
700-800               18          281          58    122     61        60      18     222        37     97       53        50                  1077
715-815               19          353          74    148    100        78      28     276        58    112       75        57                  1378
730-830               22          406          73    140    105        84      28     295        65    133       80        52                  1483
745-845               26          439          63    117     93        84      31     297        70    143       77        44                  1484
800-900               27          459          42     91     63        64      27     297        70    135       51        39                  1365

AM PEAK HOUR                                                                                PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   745-845                                                                                  PERIOD         NORTH EAST           SOUTH       WEST
                                 26      439        63                        117           15 MIN COUNTS  LEG     LEG          LEG         LEG
                                                                                            700-715              0          1           0           0
                                                                               93           715-730              3          0           9           0
                                                                                            730-745              2          0           6           2
                                                                               84           745-800              8          0           6           1
                                                                                            800-815              3          0           2           6
                                                                                            815-830              2          2           4           2
                           44                                                               830-845              1          0           0           0
                                                                                            845-900              0          0           2           0
COUNTRY HILLS DRIVE        77                                                               HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                            700-800             13          1        21             3
                           143                               70       297      31           715-815             16          0        23             9
                                                                                            730-830             15          2        18            11
                                                                  HILLCREST AVENUE          745-845             14          2        12             9
                                                                                            800-900              6          2         8             8
WILTEC                                                                                                    Phone: (626) 564-1944      Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                    KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                   ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                      THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                    4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION: N/S          HILLCREST AVENUE
              E/W          COUNTRY HILLS DRIVE



15 MIN COUNTS      1                2      3          4         5         6      7        8        9      10      11         12                   TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT            SBTH    SBLT       WBRT      WBTH     WBLT    NBRT     NBTH     NBLT    EBRT    EBTH       EBLT
400-415           11               97     17         10        20         2      7       76       23      20      12         11                         306
415-430           10               71     12         13        16         5      7       75       19      16      12          3                         259
430-445           10               91     12         14        13         3     10       70       21      16       8          6                         274
445-500           10               89     24          7        13        10     14       76       20      17       8         10                         298
500-515           14               92     20         11        13         6      8       66       20      16      10         18                         294
515-530           19               99     19         12        12        39     13       75       15      14       8         10                         335
530-545           18               83     21         13        13        19     17       71       15      22      20          8                         282
545-600           12              102     29          9        12         8     11       69       23      30      13          6                         324
HOUR TOTALS
400-500               41         348          65        44     62        20      38     297        83     69       40           30                  1137
415-515               44         343          68        45     55        24      39     287        80     65       38           37                  1125
430-530               53         371          75        44     51        58      45     287        76     63       34           44                  1201
445-545               61         363          84        43     51        36      52     288        70     69       46           46                  1209
500-600               63         376          89        45     50        34      49     281        73     82       51           42                  1235

PM PEAK HOUR                                                                                  PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   500-600                                                                                    PERIOD         NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST
                                63      376        89                            45           15 MIN COUNTS  LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG
                                                                                              400-415                0          0            5           0
                                                                                 50           415-430                0          0            0           0
                                                                                              430-445                4          0            1           0
                                                                                 34           445-500                0          1            0           0
                                                                                              500-515                0          0            1           0
                                                                                              515-530                0          0            2           0
                           42                                                                 530-545                1          0            2           0
                                                                                              545-600                1          0            0           0
COUNTRY HILLS DRIVE        51                                                                 HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                              400-500                4          1            6           0
                           82                                  73       281      49           415-515                4          1            2           0
                                                                                              430-530                4          1            4           0
                                                                    HILLCREST AVENUE          445-545                1          1            5           0
                                                                                              500-600                2          0            5           0
WILTEC                                                                                                 Phone: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                  KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                 ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                    THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                  7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION: N/S        HILLCREST AVENUE
              E/W        LAUREL ROAD



15 MIN COUNTS      1               2      3          4      5        6       7         8        9      10      11         12                  TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT           SBTH    SBLT       WBRT   WBTH     WBLT    NBRT     NBTH      NBLT    EBRT    EBTH       EBLT
700-715            3              50      8         38      1        4       1        58        2       3       4         13                        185
715-730            4              47     13         37      1        5       2        74        5       5       1          6                        200
730-745            8              91     10         47      3        6       3        96        8      14       3         13                        302
745-800           15             110     19         50      3       12       4        92       16      24       6         25                        376
800-815           28              92     12         40     26       12      11       112       29      22      17         36                        437
815-830           32              92     29         34     31        6       6        92       13      25      19         60                        439
830-845            5              83     14         31      7       18       4        76        9      29       8         29                        313
845-900            3             110     15         19      2       13      14        24        5       6       3          9                        223
HOUR TOTALS
700-800             30          298          50    172      8        27      10     320         31     46       14            57                1063
715-815             55          340          54    174     33        35      20     374         58     65       27            80                1315
730-830             83          385          70    171     63        36      24     392         66     85       45           134                1554
745-845             80          377          74    155     67        48      25     372         67    100       50           150                1565
800-900             68          377          70    124     66        49      35     304         56     82       47           134                1412

AM PEAK HOUR                                                                               PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   745-845                                                                                 PERIOD         NORTH       EAST         SOUTH     WEST
                               80      377        74                        155            15 MIN COUNTS  LEG         LEG          LEG       LEG
                                                                                           700-715                0           0          1           1
                                                                             67            715-730                0           0          3           1
                                                                                           730-745                4           0          1           0
                                                                             48            745-800                2           5         10           1
                                                                                           800-815                1           1          6           0
                                                                                           815-830                1           5          3           1
                         150                                                               830-845                0           1          0           0
                                                                                           845-900                0           5          0           0
LAUREL ROAD              50                                                                HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                           700-800                6           5         15           3
                         100                               67       372      25            715-815                7           6         20           2
                                                                                           730-830                8          11         20           2
                                                                HILLCREST AVENUE           745-845                4          12         19           2
                                                                                           800-900                2          12          9           1
WILTEC                                                                                             Phone: (626) 564-1944      Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                  KIMLEY -HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
PROJECT:                 ANTIOCH TRAFFIC COUNTS
DATE:                    THURSDAY MAY 15, 2008
PERIOD:                  4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION: N/S        HILLCREST AVENUE
              E/W        LAUREL ROAD



15 MIN COUNTS      1              2      3       4       5        6       7        8        9      10      11         12                   TOTALS
PERIOD          SBRT          SBTH    SBLT    WBRT    WBTH     WBLT    NBRT     NBTH     NBLT    EBRT    EBTH       EBLT
400-415            7            104     27      42       0        5       8       87        7       8       4          6                         305
415-430            7             90     35      35       4        4       6       90        3       2       0          5                         281
430-445           11            105     28      34       2        7       7       75        5       7       2          6                         289
445-500            8            119     30      37       1        3       9       77        7       0       3          2                         296
500-515           11            106     42      45       1       10      10       81        5       5       2          4                         322
515-530           12            123     37      29       3       15       6       80        8       4       2          3                         322
530-545           14            114     43      27       3        3       8       72       11       5       2          4                         306
545-600           13            116     40      32       2        7      15       69        3       8       1          6                         312
HOUR TOTALS
400-500             33         418      120     148      7        19      30     329        22     17         9          19                  1171
415-515             37         420      135     151      8        24      32     323        20     14         7          17                  1188
430-530             42         453      137     145      7        35      32     313        25     16         9          15                  1229
445-545             45         462      152     138      8        31      33     310        31     14         9          13                  1246
500-600             50         459      162     133      9        35      39     302        27     22         7          17                  1262

PM PEAK HOUR                                                                           PEDESTRIAN COUNTS
   500-600                                                                             PERIOD         NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST
                              50      459     162                        133           15 MIN COUNTS  LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG
                                                                                       400-415                0          0            1           0
                                                                           9           415-430                0          1            0           0
                                                                                       430-445                0          0            0           0
                                                                          35           445-500                0          0            0           0
                                                                                       500-515                0          0            0           0
                                                                                       515-530                0          0            0           0
                         17                                                            530-545                0          0            0           0
                                                                                       545-600                1          1            2           0
LAUREL ROAD              7                                                             HOUR TOTALS
                                                                                       400-500                0          1            1           0
                         22                             27       302      39           415-515                0          1            0           0
                                                                                       430-530                0          0            0           0
                                                             HILLCREST AVENUE          445-545                0          0            0           0
                                                                                       500-600                1          1            2           0
        APPENDIX B:

HCM LOS Calculation worksheets
Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                                        Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900     1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    0.91     1.00   0.97      0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.91     0.85    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085   1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1613    1504     1770     1863   1583
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085   1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1613    1504     1770     1863   1583
Volume (vph)                     29    746      52     166    1005      168      36       14       51     190       31      34
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  32    829      58     184    1117      187      40       16       57     211       34      38
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      17        0      0       65       0       22       32        0       0      31
Lane Group Flow (vph)            32    829      41     184    1117      122      40       17        2     211       34       7
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8                 7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8                        4
Actuated Green, G (s)          3.6    74.5    74.5     11.2    82.1   82.1        5.0     7.3    7.3     19.0     21.3   21.3
Effective Green, g (s)         4.6    77.5    77.5     12.2    85.1   85.1        6.0     8.3    8.3     20.0     22.3   22.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04    0.60    0.60     0.09    0.65   0.65       0.05    0.06   0.06     0.15     0.17   0.17
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0     4.0     4.0      2.0     6.0    6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0      6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              63    3031     944      322   3329    1036        158     103     96      272      320   272
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.02    0.16            c0.05   c0.22              0.01   c0.01           c0.12     0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.03                    0.08                      0.00                     0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.51    0.27    0.04     0.57    0.34   0.12       0.25    0.17   0.02     0.78     0.11   0.02
Uniform Delay, d1             61.6    12.7    10.9     56.4     9.9    8.4       59.8    57.6   57.0     52.8     45.4   44.8
Progression Factor            0.81    0.61    0.39     1.23    0.59   0.41       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.0     0.2     0.1      1.4     0.3    0.2        0.3     0.3    0.0     11.9      0.4    0.1
Delay (s)                     51.9     7.9     4.3     70.5     6.1    3.6       60.1    57.9   57.1     64.7     45.9   44.9
Level of Service                 D       A       A        E       A      A          E       E      E        E        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                     9.2                     13.8                      58.4                     59.8
Approach LOS                             A                        B                         E                        E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      18.7       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.43
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            49.9%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 1                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SR-4 Bypass SB Off-Ramp                                                           Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0                                      3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00    0.97    0.91                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583    3433    5085                                     1681    1689    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583    3433    5085                                     1681    1689    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    571     401      72    1000       0          0      0      0     287       6     353
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90       0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0    634     446      80    1111       0          0      0      0     319       7     392
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0     171       0       0       0          0      0      0       0       0      50
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0    634     275      80    1111       0          0      0      0     160     166     342
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                                2
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                                           Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1      6                                                4
Permitted Phases                                2                                                        4               4
Actuated Green, G (s)                77.6    77.6      7.1    88.7                                    31.8    31.8    31.8
Effective Green, g (s)               80.1    80.1      8.1    91.2                                    32.8    32.8    32.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.62    0.62     0.06    0.70                                    0.25    0.25    0.25
Clearance Time (s)                    5.5     5.5      4.0     5.5                                     4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 4.0     4.0      3.0     4.0                                     3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3133     975      214   3567                                      424     426     399
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.12            c0.02   c0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.17                                                     0.10    0.10   c0.22
v/c Ratio                            0.20    0.28     0.37    0.31                                    0.38    0.39    0.86
Uniform Delay, d1                    10.9    11.6     58.5     7.4                                    40.2    40.3    46.4
Progression Factor                   0.82    1.16     1.32    0.38                                    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                 0.1     0.7      1.1     0.2                                     0.6     0.6    16.4
Delay (s)                             9.1    14.2     78.4     3.0                                    40.7    40.9    62.7
Level of Service                        A       B        E       A                                       D       D       E
Approach Delay (s)                   11.2                      8.1                      0.0                   52.8
Approach LOS                            B                        A                        A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     20.0       HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.46
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           47.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                           EER
Page 2                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & On-ramp                                                                             Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900     1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91     1.00   0.95      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1697    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1697    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    662      160        8    671     245     383        29       79       0       0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89     0.89    0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89      0.89     0.89    0.89    0.89   0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0    744      180        9    754      275    430        33       89       0       0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       47        0      0       61      0         0       74       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0    744      133        9    754     215     226       237       15       0       0      0
Turn Type                                    Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm
Protected Phases                        2                 1      6               8         8
Permitted Phases                                 2                        6                        8
Actuated Green, G (s)                 93.2    93.2      1.2    98.4    98.4      21.6    21.6   21.6
Effective Green, g (s)                96.2    96.2      2.2   101.4   101.4      22.6    22.6   22.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.74    0.74     0.02    0.78    0.78      0.17    0.17   0.17
Clearance Time (s)                     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0     6.0       4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0      2.0     4.0     4.0       2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3763     1171       30   3966    1235       292     295    275
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.15            c0.01    0.15              0.13   c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.08                     0.14                     0.01
v/c Ratio                             0.20    0.11     0.30    0.19    0.17      0.77    0.80   0.06
Uniform Delay, d1                      5.1     4.8     63.1     3.7     3.6      51.3    51.6   44.8
Progression Factor                    0.53    1.33     0.63    2.36   11.24      1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  0.1     0.2      2.0     0.1     0.3      11.0    13.8    0.0
Delay (s)                              2.9     6.6     42.0     8.8    41.2      62.3    65.4   44.8
Level of Service                         A       A        D       A       D         E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                     3.6                     17.7                      60.8                     0.0
Approach LOS                             A                        B                         E                       A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      22.0       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.31
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            33.2%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 3                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Shady Willow Rd                                                                    Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0              3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95            0.97     1.00    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      0.99            1.00     1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00            1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.88            1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080            3433     1863   1563
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080            3433     1863   1563
Volume (vph)                     74    484      91       54    837       29      39       47     191       42      35      24
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  82    538     101       60    930       32      43       52     212       47      39      27
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      34        0      0       11       0      185       0        0       0      24
Lane Group Flow (vph)            82    538      67       60    930       21      43       79       0       47      39       3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1              1        1               1       1                1        1               1
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                      Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8                7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.5    83.5    83.5      7.7    82.7   82.7      5.9      15.4            5.4     14.9   14.9
Effective Green, g (s)         9.5    86.5    86.5      8.7    85.7   85.7      6.9      16.4            6.4     15.9   15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07    0.67    0.67     0.07    0.66   0.66     0.05      0.13           0.05     0.12   0.12
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0      4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0      2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             251    3383    1031     118    2333    1030     182       389             169      228    191
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02    0.11            c0.03   c0.26           c0.01     c0.03          c0.01     0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.04                    0.01                                              0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.33    0.16    0.07     0.51    0.40   0.02       0.24    0.20           0.28     0.17   0.02
Uniform Delay, d1             57.2     8.1     7.6     58.6    10.2    7.7       59.0    50.9           59.6     51.1   50.2
Progression Factor            0.88    0.88    1.72     0.93    1.61   3.11       1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.8     0.1     0.1      1.2     0.5    0.0        0.7     0.4            0.3      0.1    0.0
Delay (s)                     51.1     7.2    13.2     55.9    17.0   23.8       59.7    51.3           59.9     51.3   50.2
Level of Service                 D       A       B        E       B      C          E       D              E        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                    13.1                     19.5                      52.5                    54.6
Approach LOS                             B                        B                         D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      23.9       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.37
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            58.2%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 4                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                                      Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900    1900   1900        1900   1900     1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97        1.00    1.00    0.97     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    0.99    1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00        1.00    0.85    1.00     0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562     3433     3167
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562     3433     3167
Volume (vph)                   168    499      26       81    638      80     89          48      41     105       77    181
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90        0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                187    554      29       90    709      89     99          53      46     117       86    201
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      11        0      0      39      0           0      41       0      180      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          187    554      18       90    709      50     99          53       5     117      107      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                                         1       1
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm       Split          Perm     Split
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                  8      8                4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)         17.6   78.3    78.3    10.8     71.5   71.5    12.2       12.2   12.2     12.7     12.7
Effective Green, g (s)        18.6   79.3    79.3    11.8     72.5   72.5    13.2       13.2   13.2     13.7     13.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.14   0.61    0.61    0.09     0.56   0.56    0.10       0.10   0.10     0.11     0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0        4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0    4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0     2.0        2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             253   3102    953     161     1974    883     349        189    159      362      334
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.11   0.11            0.05    c0.20          c0.03       0.03           c0.03     0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                    0.03                      0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.74   0.18    0.02    0.56     0.36   0.06       0.28    0.28   0.03     0.32     0.32
Uniform Delay, d1             53.4   11.1    10.0    56.6     15.9   13.1       54.0    54.0   52.6     53.9     53.8
Progression Factor            1.11   0.64    0.37    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          9.3    0.1     0.0     2.4      0.5    0.1        0.2     0.3    0.0      0.2      0.2
Delay (s)                     68.7    7.2     3.7    59.0     16.4   13.2       54.2    54.3   52.7     54.0     54.0
Level of Service                 E      A       A       E        B      B          D       D      D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                   22.0                     20.4                      53.9                     54.0
Approach LOS                            C                        C                         D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     29.9       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.6%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 5                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                                   Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95            1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.83    1.00    1.00     0.92   1.00      0.96            1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.95            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539   1311     1770    3539    1454    3433      3245            2000    3508
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539   1311     1770    3539    1454    3433      3245            1770    3508
Volume (vph)                    35    644     157     185     833      185    279       245     111     353     457      17
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89      0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                 39    724     176     208     936      208    313       275     125     397     513      19
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      47       0       0       39      0        42       0       0       2       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           39    724     129     208     936      169    313       358       0     397     530       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             44            101     101               44     58                69      69              58
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            31                       15                       13                       5
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm       Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                  3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)          7.3   38.5    38.5     18.4    49.6   49.6       16.7    24.3           30.3    37.9
Effective Green, g (s)         8.8   40.5    40.5     19.9    51.6   51.6       18.2    25.8           31.8    39.4
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07   0.31    0.31     0.15    0.40   0.40       0.14    0.20           0.24    0.30
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    5.0     5.0      4.5     5.0    5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    7.0     7.0      3.0     7.0    7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             120   1103    408      271    1405    577        481     644             489    1063
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02   0.20            c0.12   c0.26              0.09   c0.11          c0.20    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.10                    0.12
v/c Ratio                     0.32   0.66    0.32     0.77    0.67   0.29       0.65    0.56           0.81    0.50
Uniform Delay, d1             57.8   38.7    34.2     52.8    32.1   26.7       52.9    46.9           46.3    37.2
Progression Factor            1.18   1.30    1.64     1.16    0.53   0.30       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.5    2.8     1.9      7.6     1.5    0.8        3.1     1.0           10.4     0.4
Delay (s)                     69.7   53.0    57.9     69.0    18.6    8.9       56.0    48.0           56.7    37.6
Level of Service                 E      D       E        E       B      A          E       D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                   54.6                     24.9                      51.5                   45.7
Approach LOS                            D                        C                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     41.7       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.69
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           87.1%        ICU Level of Service                     E
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 6                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                                   Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900   1900    1900    1900       1900   1900    1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0        3.0            3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00   1.00       0.95           0.91     0.91   1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.96    1.00   1.00     0.96   1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00   0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00   1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00   1.00     0.85   1.00       0.97           1.00     1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     0.97   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1520    1770       3421           1900     3288   1554
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     0.97   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1520    1770       3421           1610     3288   1554
Volume (vph)                   177    495      18      24    862      160     36         53     13     279       85    269
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90   0.90       0.90   0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                197    550      20      27    958      178     40         59     14     310       94    299
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       9       0      0       86      0         12      0       0        0    247
Lane Group Flow (vph)          197    550      11      27    958       92     40         61      0     155      249     52
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             18             20      20              18      5                10      10               5
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            12                       9
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm     Prot           Perm       Split                  Split           Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                1      6                  8      8               4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                      6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         18.1   71.0    71.0     3.4    55.8   55.8     15.4      15.4           20.7     20.7   20.7
Effective Green, g (s)        20.1   73.0    73.0     4.9    57.8   57.8     17.4      17.4           22.7     22.7   22.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.15   0.56    0.56    0.04    0.44   0.44     0.13      0.13           0.17     0.17   0.17
Clearance Time (s)             5.0    5.0     5.0     4.5     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0            5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          5.0    5.0     5.0     3.0     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0            5.0      5.0    5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             274   1987    851       67   1573    676      237       458             332      574    271
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.11   0.16            0.02   c0.27           c0.02      0.02          c0.08     0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                   0.06                                              0.03
v/c Ratio                     0.72   0.28    0.01    0.40    0.61   0.14       0.17    0.13           0.47     0.43   0.19
Uniform Delay, d1             52.3   14.8    12.6    61.1    27.5   21.3       49.9    49.6           48.2     47.9   45.8
Progression Factor            1.31   1.10    1.95    1.18    0.73   0.62       1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          9.8    0.3     0.0     3.5     1.6    0.4        0.7     0.3            2.2      1.1    0.7
Delay (s)                     78.0   16.6    24.5    75.8    21.8   13.6       50.6    49.9           50.4     49.0   46.6
Level of Service                 E      B       C       E       C      B          D       D              D        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                   32.6                    21.8                      50.2                    48.3
Approach LOS                            C                       C                         D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     32.7      HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           61.7%       ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                           EER
Page 7                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                                     Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0            3.0        3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91            1.00    0.91           1.00       1.00           1.00    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.99            1.00    0.99           1.00       0.87           1.00    0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5049            1770    5057           1770       1612           1770    1661
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.66       1.00           0.31    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5049            1770    5057           1233       1612            585    1661
Volume (vph)                    20    693      30       59    967      37     39         14    123      24      16      41
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93   0.93       0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93
Adj. Flow (vph)                 22    745      32       63   1040      40     42         15    132      26      17      44
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      2       0        0      2       0      0        118      0       0      39       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           22    775       0       63   1078       0     42         29      0      26      22       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1
Turn Type                     Prot                    Prot                  Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                        8                       4
Permitted Phases                                                                   8                     4
Actuated Green, G (s)          5.5   93.6              9.5    97.6              12.4   12.4           12.4    12.4
Effective Green, g (s)         7.0   96.1             11.0   100.1              13.9   13.9           13.9    13.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.05   0.74             0.08    0.77              0.11   0.11           0.11    0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0    6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              95   3732              150   3894                132    172             63     178
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01   0.15            c0.04   c0.21                     0.02                   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                  0.03                 c0.04
v/c Ratio                     0.23   0.21             0.42    0.28              0.32   0.17           0.41    0.12
Uniform Delay, d1             58.9    5.2             56.5     4.4              53.7   52.8           54.2    52.5
Progression Factor            1.02   1.10             1.10    0.62              1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.6    0.1              2.2     0.1               1.4    0.5            4.3     0.3
Delay (s)                     61.9    5.8             64.3     2.8              55.1   53.3           58.6    52.8
Level of Service                 E      A                E       A                 E      D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                    7.4                      6.2                     53.7                   54.6
Approach LOS                            A                        A                        D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     12.6       HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.30
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           47.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                           EER
Page 8                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                                  Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    0.99             1.00    0.99           1.00       0.99           1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.90             1.00    0.92           1.00       0.99           1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1665             1770    1691           1770       3468           1770     3478
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1665             1770    1691           1770       3468           1770     3478
Volume (vph)                    44      77      143      84      93     117      70       297     31       63     439      26
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90       0.90   0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                 49      86      159      93     103     130      78       330     34       70     488      29
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      39        0       0      26       0       0         3      0        0       2       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           49     206        0      93     207       0      78       361      0       70     515       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              3                2       2               3      45               16       16              45
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                      Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5        2                1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         21.0     21.0            20.6     20.6            9.5      66.4            9.5      66.4
Effective Green, g (s)        21.5     21.5            21.1     21.1           10.0      67.9           10.0      67.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.16     0.16            0.16     0.16           0.08      0.51           0.08      0.51
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5       4.5            3.5       4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0       5.0            3.0       5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             287      270             282      269            134      1777            134     1782
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.12            0.05    c0.12          c0.04      0.10          c0.04     c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.17     0.76            0.33     0.77              0.58   0.20           0.52      0.29
Uniform Delay, d1             47.8     53.1            49.4     53.4              59.2   17.6           59.0      18.5
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00           1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.3     12.0             0.7     12.4               6.3    0.3            3.6       0.4
Delay (s)                     48.1     65.0            50.1     65.8              65.5   17.8           62.6      18.9
Level of Service                 D        E               D        E                 E      B              E         B
Approach Delay (s)                     62.2                     61.3                     26.3                     24.1
Approach LOS                              E                        E                        C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       38.8       HCM Level of Service                   D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      132.5       Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             54.2%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 9                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
18: Sterling Hill Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                                 Existing AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0        3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98     1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.90             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85     1.00     0.97
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1661            1767    1863   1583    1770       3539   1545     1770     3446
Flt Permitted                 0.69   1.00             0.46   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1280   1661              855   1863   1583    1770       3539   1545     1770     3446
Volume (vph)                   150     50     100       48     67    155      67        372     25        74     377      80
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89   0.89    0.89       0.89   0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                169     56     112       54     75    174      75        418     28        83     424      90
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     91       0        0      0    142       0          0      0         0      10       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          169     77       0       54     75     32      75        418     28        83     504       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             2        2                                       9         9
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm        Prot          Free      Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                   5     2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                      8               8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)         16.9   16.9            16.9    16.9    16.9        8.3   59.8   100.0     8.8      60.3
Effective Green, g (s)        18.4   18.4            18.4    18.4    18.4        9.3   62.8   100.0     9.8      63.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.18   0.18            0.18    0.18    0.18       0.09   0.63    1.00    0.10      0.63
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5             4.5     4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0       6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0             3.5     3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0       5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             236    306             157     343     291        165   2222   1545     173      2181
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.05                    0.04               0.04   0.12           c0.05     c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm               c0.13                   0.06            0.02                     c0.02
v/c Ratio                     0.72   0.25            0.34    0.22    0.11       0.45   0.19    0.02    0.48      0.23
Uniform Delay, d1             38.3   34.9            35.5    34.7    34.0       42.9    7.8     0.0    42.7       7.9
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.14      0.44
Incremental Delay, d2          9.9    0.4             1.6     0.4     0.2        2.0    0.2     0.0     2.0       0.2
Delay (s)                     48.2   35.3            37.1    35.1    34.2       44.9    8.0     0.0    50.6       3.7
Level of Service                 D      D               D       D       C          D      A       A       D         A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.8                    34.9                      12.9                      10.2
Approach LOS                            D                       C                         B                         B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     21.3       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.35
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/17/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 10                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                                        Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91    1.00   0.97       0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     0.99    1.00    1.00    0.98   1.00       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.92    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1628    1504    1770    1863    1558
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1628    1504    1770    1863    1558
Volume (vph)                     54   1354       55     329     942     253      84        55     173     175      56       22
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.96    0.96     0.96    0.96    0.96    0.96   0.96       0.96    0.96    0.96    0.96     0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                  56   1410       57     343     981     264      88        57     180     182      58       23
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0       13        0      0     104       0        40     101       0       0       20
Lane Group Flow (vph)            56   1410       44     343     981     160      88        82      14     182      58        3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1               1        1              1       4                                          4
Turn Type                      Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm     Prot              Perm    Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1     6                3         8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                  2                       6                         8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.0     66.2    66.2     17.5   75.7    75.7       11.0    14.4   14.4    13.9     17.3   17.3
Effective Green, g (s)         9.0     69.2    69.2     18.5   78.7    78.7       12.0    15.4   15.4    14.9     18.3   18.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07     0.53    0.53     0.14   0.61    0.61       0.09    0.12   0.12    0.11     0.14   0.14
Clearance Time (s)             4.0      6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0     6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0      4.0     4.0      2.0    6.0     6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0     2.0      6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             123    2707     831      489    3078    937        317     193    178     203      262    219
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.28            c0.10   0.19               0.03   c0.05          c0.10    c0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                                 0.03                    0.10                      0.01                    0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.46     0.52    0.05     0.70   0.32    0.17       0.28    0.43   0.08    0.90     0.22   0.01
Uniform Delay, d1             58.1     19.7    14.6     53.1   12.5    11.3       55.0    53.2   51.0    56.8     49.5   48.1
Progression Factor            0.89     0.81    1.00     1.23   0.58    0.51       1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.7      0.5     0.1      3.5    0.3     0.4        0.2     0.6    0.1    35.1      1.2    0.1
Delay (s)                     52.6     16.5    14.8     68.7    7.6     6.1       55.1    53.8   51.0    91.9     50.7   48.2
Level of Service                 D        B       B        E      A       A          E       D      D       F        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                     17.7                    20.5                       53.2                    79.0
Approach LOS                              B                       C                          D                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       26.4       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             63.7%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 1
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SB Off-Ramp                                                                        Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0                                      3.0     3.0    3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91                                     0.95    0.95   1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00   1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00   1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00                                     1.00    1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085     1583    3433    5085                                     1681    1689   1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085     1583    3433    5085                                     1681    1689   1583
Volume (vph)                     0   1169      541      98    1153       0          0      0      0     416      10    361
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95       0.95   0.95   0.95    0.95    0.95   0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1231      569     103    1214       0          0      0      0     438      11    380
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      228       0       0       0          0      0      0       0       0     33
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1231      341     103    1214       0          0      0      0     219     230    347
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                                 3             3
Turn Type                                    Perm      Prot                                           Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                        2                 1     6                                                 4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                        4               4
Actuated Green, G (s)                 75.3    75.3      9.0   88.3                                     32.2    32.2    32.2
Effective Green, g (s)                77.8    77.8     10.0   90.8                                     33.2    33.2    33.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.60    0.60     0.08   0.70                                     0.26    0.26    0.26
Clearance Time (s)                     5.5     5.5      4.0    5.5                                      4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0      3.0    4.0                                      3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3043      947      264   3552                                      429     431     404
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.24            c0.03   0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.22                                                     0.13    0.14   c0.22
v/c Ratio                             0.40    0.36     0.39   0.34                                     0.51    0.53    0.86
Uniform Delay, d1                     13.8    13.4     57.1    7.8                                     41.4    41.7    46.2
Progression Factor                    0.66    1.52     1.27   0.39                                     1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  0.3     0.9      0.9    0.3                                      1.0     1.3    16.4
Delay (s)                              9.4    21.2     73.5    3.3                                     42.5    43.0    62.6
Level of Service                         A       C        E      A                                        D       D       E
Approach Delay (s)                    13.2                     8.8                       0.0                   51.9
Approach LOS                             B                       A                         A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      19.8       HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            58.6%        ICU Level of Service                    B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                              11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                        Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & NB On-ramp                                                                          Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900     1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91    1.00   0.95       0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1699    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1699    1583
Volume (vph)                     0   1404      264      21     831     357    437         43      137       0       0       0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.91   0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91   0.91       0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1543      290       23    913     392    480         47      151       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       87        0      0      93      0          0      122       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1543      203      23     913     299    257        270       29       0       0       0
Turn Type                                    Perm      Prot          Perm    Split              Perm
Protected Phases                        2                 1     6               8          8
Permitted Phases                                 2                      6                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)                 88.2    88.2      4.1   96.3   96.3        23.7    23.7   23.7
Effective Green, g (s)                91.2    91.2      5.1   99.3   99.3        24.7    24.7   24.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.70    0.70     0.04   0.76   0.76        0.19    0.19   0.19
Clearance Time (s)                     6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0    6.0         4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0      2.0    4.0    4.0         2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3567     1111       69   3884   1209        319     323    301
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.30            c0.01   0.18               0.15   c0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.13                    0.19                      0.02
v/c Ratio                             0.43    0.18     0.33   0.24    0.25       0.81    0.84   0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                      8.3     6.6     60.8    4.4     4.5       50.4    50.7   43.4
Progression Factor                    0.38    0.42     0.98   0.93    1.30       1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  0.4     0.3      1.0    0.1     0.5       13.0    16.2    0.1
Delay (s)                              3.5     3.2     60.3    4.2     6.3       63.4    66.9   43.5
Level of Service                         A       A        E      A       A          E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                     3.5                     5.8                       60.3                     0.0
Approach LOS                             A                       A                          E                       A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      14.3       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            47.0%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 3
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Slaten Ranch                                                                       Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95            0.97    1.00    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.90            1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174            3433    1863   1561
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00            0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174            3433    1863   1561
Volume (vph)                   217     892     256     160     803       55      51       76     167     114      67     101
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94     0.94   0.94      0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                231     949     272     170     854       59      54       81     178     121      71     107
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0     118        0      0       24       0      155       0       0       0      90
Lane Group Flow (vph)          231     949     154     170     854       35      54      104       0     121      71      17
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2              1        1               2       2                                        2
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         13.2    70.5    70.5     16.1    73.4   73.4      6.3      15.6            9.8    19.1    19.1
Effective Green, g (s)        14.2    73.5    73.5     17.1    76.4   76.4      7.3      16.6           10.8    20.1    20.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11    0.57    0.57     0.13    0.59   0.59     0.06      0.13           0.08    0.15    0.15
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0     2.0     2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             375    2875    876      233    2080    917      193       405            285     288      241
v/s Ratio Prot                0.07    0.19            c0.10   c0.24           c0.02     c0.03          c0.04    0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.02                                              0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.62    0.33    0.18     0.73    0.41   0.04       0.28    0.26           0.42    0.25    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1             55.3    15.1    13.6     54.2    14.6   11.3       58.8    51.1           56.6    48.3    47.0
Progression Factor            0.95    0.93    1.92     1.04    1.16   2.27       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.0     0.3     0.4      9.0     0.6    0.1        0.8     0.5            0.4     0.2     0.0
Delay (s)                     55.6    14.4    26.6     65.2    17.5   25.8       59.6    51.6           57.0    48.5    47.0
Level of Service                 E       B       C        E       B      C          E       D              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    23.2                     25.4                      53.0                   51.4
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      29.6       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.43
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            61.4%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 4
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Ave                                                                          Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900     1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      1.00     1.00    0.97     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00     0.97   1.00      1.00     0.99    1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85    1.00     0.91
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562     3433     3187
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562     3433     3187
Volume (vph)                   230     759     112       53    702      129     76        46       36     231      115     176
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98      0.98     0.98    0.98     0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                235     774     114       54    716      132     78        47       37     236      117     180
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      43        0      0       63      0         0       34       0      157       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          235     774      71       54    716       69     78        47        3     236      140       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               3              1        1               3      3                  1       1                3
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm     Split
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6               8         8                4        4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)         20.6    80.4    80.4     7.0     66.8   66.8       10.9    10.9   10.9     15.7     15.7
Effective Green, g (s)        21.6    81.4    81.4     8.0     67.8   67.8       11.9    11.9   11.9     16.7     16.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.17    0.63    0.63    0.06     0.52   0.52       0.09    0.09   0.09     0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0     4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             294    3184    978     109     1846    803        314     171    143      441      409
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.13    0.15            0.03    c0.20              0.02   c0.03           c0.07     0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.05                    0.04                      0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.80    0.24    0.07    0.50     0.39   0.09       0.25    0.27   0.02     0.54     0.34
Uniform Delay, d1             52.1    10.7     9.5    59.0     18.7   15.6       54.9    55.0   53.8     53.0     51.6
Progression Factor            1.36    0.57    0.30    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         12.8     0.2     0.1     1.3      0.6    0.2        0.2     0.3    0.0      0.6      0.2
Delay (s)                     83.8     6.3     3.0    60.3     19.3   15.8       55.0    55.3   53.8     53.6     51.8
Level of Service                 F       A       A       E        B      B          E       E      D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                    22.2                     21.2                      54.8                     52.6
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      29.8       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            62.6%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                           Page 5
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                                    Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97       0.95            1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     0.91    1.00    1.00    0.97   1.00       0.99            1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.95            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539    1436     1770    3539   1531    3433       3347            2000    3498
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539    1436     1770    3539   1531    3433       3347            1770    3498
Volume (vph)                    87    780      147     151     497     154    192        365     168     168     191      14
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97   0.97       0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                 90    804      152     156     512     159    198        376     173     173     197      14
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       32       0       0      54      0         43       0       0       5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           90    804      120     156     512     105    198        506       0     173     206       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             12              54      54              12     11                  8       8              11
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                             11                       9
Turn Type                     Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5      2                 1     6                   3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)         11.8    54.1    54.1     16.3   58.6    58.6       12.5    24.0           17.1    28.6
Effective Green, g (s)        13.3    56.1    56.1     17.8   60.6    60.6       14.0    25.5           18.6    30.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10    0.43    0.43     0.14   0.47    0.47       0.11    0.20           0.14    0.23
Clearance Time (s)             4.5     5.0     5.0      4.5    5.0     5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     7.0     7.0      3.0    7.0     7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             181   1527     620      242    1650    714        370     657             286     810
v/s Ratio Prot                0.05   c0.23            c0.09   0.14               0.06   c0.15          c0.09    0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.08                    0.07
v/c Ratio                     0.50    0.53    0.19     0.64   0.31    0.15       0.54    0.77           0.60    0.25
Uniform Delay, d1             55.2    27.2    22.9     53.1   21.7    19.9       54.9    49.5           52.3    40.8
Progression Factor            1.41    0.64    0.68     0.97   1.73    2.83       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.9     1.1     0.6      4.9    0.4     0.4        1.5     5.6            4.1     0.2
Delay (s)                     79.8    18.4    16.1     56.1   37.8    56.7       56.4    55.1           56.4    41.0
Level of Service                 E       B       B        E      D       E          E       E              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                    23.3                    44.9                       55.4                   47.9
Approach LOS                             C                       D                          E                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      40.4       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            70.8%        ICU Level of Service                    C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 6
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                                     Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900   1900   1900    1900        1900    1900    1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0         3.0             3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00   0.91    1.00   1.00        0.95            0.91     0.91    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     0.96    1.00   1.00    0.96   1.00        0.99            1.00     1.00    0.97
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00            1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00     0.85    1.00   1.00    0.85   1.00        0.97            1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00            0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539    1521     1770   5085   1520    1770        3388            2000     3271   1533
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00            0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539    1521     1770   5085   1520    1770        3388            1610     3271   1533
Volume (vph)                   131    915       22      43    720     229     17          87      26     423       77      97
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.88   0.88     0.88    0.88   0.88    0.88   0.88        0.88    0.88    0.88     0.88    0.88
Adj. Flow (vph)                149   1040       25      49    818     260     19          99      30     481       88     110
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0        9       0      0     152      0          25       0       0        0      89
Lane Group Flow (vph)          149   1040       16      49    818    108      19         104       0     241      328      21
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             18              20      20             18     14                  16      16               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                              3                      8                          1                        1
Turn Type                     Prot           Perm     Prot          Perm        Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases                 5      2                1     6                   8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                                 2                      6                                                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)         17.3    64.7    64.7     5.2   52.1    52.1       17.4     17.4           23.2     23.2    23.2
Effective Green, g (s)        19.3    66.7    66.7     6.7   54.1    54.1       19.4     19.4           25.2     25.2    25.2
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.15    0.51    0.51    0.05   0.42    0.42       0.15     0.15           0.19     0.19    0.19
Clearance Time (s)             5.0     5.0     5.0     4.5    5.0     5.0        5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          5.0     5.0     5.0     3.0    5.0     5.0        5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             263   1816     780       91   2116    633        264      506             388      634     297
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.08   c0.29            0.03   0.16               0.01    c0.03          c0.12     0.10
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.01                   0.07                                                0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.57    0.57    0.02    0.54   0.39    0.17       0.07     0.21           0.62     0.52    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1             51.5    21.8    15.6    60.1   26.4    23.9       47.6     48.5           48.0     47.0    42.8
Progression Factor            0.87    0.61    0.35    1.14   0.87    0.99       1.00     1.00           1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          4.1     1.2     0.0     5.2    0.5     0.5        0.2      0.4            4.3      1.4     0.2
Delay (s)                     48.6    14.5     5.5    73.6   23.4    24.1       47.8     49.0           52.4     48.4    43.1
Level of Service                 D       B       A       E      C       C          D        D              D        D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    18.5                   25.7                        48.8                    48.9
Approach LOS                             B                      C                           D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      29.0      HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.52
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            62.0%       ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 7
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                                       Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0               3.0    3.0             3.0       3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91             1.00    0.91            1.00      1.00           1.00    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00           1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.95      1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5055             1770    5062           1767       1605           1770    1652
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.74      1.00           0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5055             1770    5062           1372       1605            742    1652
Volume (vph)                     18   1282       44     121     931      24      35        10    114      42       9      20
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97    0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97      0.97   0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                  19   1322       45     125     960      25      36        10    118      43       9      21
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      2        0        0      1       0       0       105      0       0      19       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            19   1365        0     125     984       0      36        23      0      43      11       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               4               4        4              4       1                                        1
Turn Type                      Prot                     Prot                  Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1      6                        8                       4
Permitted Phases                                                                     8                     4
Actuated Green, G (s)          3.7     87.4             15.3    99.0              12.8   12.8           12.8    12.8
Effective Green, g (s)         5.2     89.9             16.8   101.5              14.3   14.3           14.3    14.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04     0.69             0.13    0.78              0.11   0.11           0.11    0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.5      5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0      6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              71    3496               229   3952                151    177             82     182
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01    c0.27            c0.07    0.19                     0.01                   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                    0.03                 c0.06
v/c Ratio                     0.27     0.39             0.55    0.25              0.24   0.13           0.52    0.06
Uniform Delay, d1             60.6      8.5             53.0     3.9              52.9   52.2           54.6    51.8
Progression Factor            0.92     0.82             0.96    1.43              1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.1      0.3              2.4     0.1               0.8    0.3            5.9     0.1
Delay (s)                     57.9      7.2             53.2     5.7              53.7   52.6           60.6    52.0
Level of Service                 E        A                D       A                 D      D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                      7.9                     11.0                     52.8                   57.0
Approach LOS                              A                        B                        D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       13.2       HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.43
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             56.7%        ICU Level of Service                    B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 8
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                                  Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    0.99           1.00       0.99           1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.91             1.00    0.93           1.00       0.98           1.00     0.98
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1690             1770    1710           1770       3442           1770     3427
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1690             1770    1710           1770       3442           1770     3427
Volume (vph)                    42      51       82      34      50      45      73       281     49       89     376      63
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92       0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 46      55       89      37      54      49      79       305     53       97     409      68
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      36        0       0      20       0       0         5      0        0       5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           46     108        0      37      83       0      79       353      0       97     472       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             10                                       10      20                7        7              20
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                      Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5        2                1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         12.3     12.3             9.4      9.4            8.9      69.2            9.9      70.2
Effective Green, g (s)        12.8     12.8             9.9      9.9            9.4      70.7           10.4      71.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11     0.11            0.09     0.09           0.08      0.61           0.09      0.62
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5       4.5            3.5       4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0       5.0            3.0       5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             196      187             151      146            144      2101            159     2122
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.06            0.02    c0.05          c0.04      0.10          c0.05     c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.23     0.58            0.25     0.57              0.55   0.17           0.61      0.22
Uniform Delay, d1             47.0     48.9            49.5     50.9              51.2    9.8           50.7       9.7
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00           1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.6      4.2             0.8      5.0               4.2    0.2            6.8       0.2
Delay (s)                     47.6     53.1            50.3     55.9              55.4   10.0           57.5      10.0
Level of Service                 D        D               D        E                 E      A              E         A
Approach Delay (s)                     51.8                     54.4                     18.2                     18.0
Approach LOS                              D                        D                        B                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       26.7       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.37
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      115.8       Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             51.3%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 9
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
18: Laurel Rd. & Hillcrest Ave                                                                        Existing PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0       3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98     1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.89             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85     1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1634            1768    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550     1770     3479
Flt Permitted                 0.75   1.00             0.74   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1400   1634            1374    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550     1770     3479
Volume (vph)                    17      7      22       35      9    133      27        302     39      162      459      50
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98   0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98   0.98    0.98       0.98   0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                 17      7      22       36      9    136      28        308     40      165      468      51
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     20       0        0      0    123        0         0      0         0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           17      9       0       36      9     13       28       308     40      165      516       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                      2                2         2               2
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm     Prot             Free      Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                5        2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                       8              8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.4    8.4              8.4    8.4     8.4        3.4   62.6   100.0    14.5      73.7
Effective Green, g (s)         9.9    9.9              9.9    9.9     9.9        4.4   65.6   100.0    15.5      76.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10   0.10             0.10   0.10    0.10       0.04   0.66    1.00    0.16      0.77
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5              4.5    4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0       6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0              3.5    3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0       5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             139    162              136    184     157         78   2322   1550     274      2668
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.01                    0.00               0.02   0.09           c0.09     c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                0.01                   c0.03           0.01                      0.03
v/c Ratio                     0.12   0.06             0.26   0.05    0.09       0.36   0.13    0.03    0.60      0.19
Uniform Delay, d1             41.1   40.8             41.7   40.8    40.9       46.4    6.5     0.0    39.4       3.2
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.23      0.15
Incremental Delay, d2          0.4    0.1              1.2    0.1     0.3        2.8    0.1     0.0     3.4       0.1
Delay (s)                     41.5   41.0             42.9   40.9    41.2       49.2    6.6     0.0    51.7       0.6
Level of Service                 D      D                D      D       D          D      A       A       D         A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.2                    41.5                       9.1                      12.9
Approach LOS                            D                       D                         A                         B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     16.8       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.27
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           48.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/17/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                        Page 10
Near-Term No Project
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                          Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91     1.00   0.97      0.95     0.95   1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.87     0.85   1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1540    1504    1770     1863   1583
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1540    1504    1770     1863   1583
Volume (vph)                     29    971       65     211    1119      168     76        14      184    190       31      34
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90     0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  32   1079       72     234    1243      187     84        16      204    211       34      38
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0       17        0      0       65       0       95       95       0       0      33
Lane Group Flow (vph)            32   1079       55     234    1243      122     84        23        7    211       34       5
Turn Type                      Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot             Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1      6                3        8                7       4
Permitted Phases                                  2                       6                         8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)          3.6     71.9    71.9     13.3    81.6   81.6        9.7     7.8    7.8     19.0    17.1   17.1
Effective Green, g (s)         4.6     74.9    74.9     14.3    84.6   84.6       10.7     8.8    8.8     20.0    18.1   18.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04     0.58    0.58     0.11    0.65   0.65       0.08    0.07   0.07     0.15    0.14   0.14
Clearance Time (s)             4.0      6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0      4.0     4.0      2.0     6.0    6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0     6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              63    2930      912      378   3309    1030        283     104    102      272     259    220
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02    c0.21            c0.07   c0.24              0.02   c0.01           c0.12    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                 0.03                    0.08                      0.00                    0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.51     0.37    0.06     0.62    0.38   0.12       0.30    0.22   0.07     0.78    0.13   0.02
Uniform Delay, d1             61.6     14.8    12.1     55.2    10.5    8.6       56.1    57.4   56.8     52.8    49.1   48.3
Progression Factor            0.83     0.59    0.46     1.25    0.61   0.68       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.0      0.3     0.1      1.9     0.3    0.2        0.2     0.4    0.1     11.9     0.7    0.1
Delay (s)                     53.2      9.0     5.7     71.2     6.7    6.0       56.3    57.7   56.9     64.7    49.7   48.4
Level of Service                 D        A       A        E       A      A          E       E      E        E       D      D
Approach Delay (s)                     10.0                     15.7                      57.1                    60.7
Approach LOS                              B                        B                         E                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       21.1       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.46
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             52.1%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                               EER
Page 1                                                                                           Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SR-4 Bypass SB Off-Ramp                                             Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0                                      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00    0.97   0.91                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583    3433   5085                                    1681     1689    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583    3433   5085                                    1681     1689    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    848     483      72   1102       0          0      0      0     287        6     410
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90    0.90       0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0    942     537      80   1224       0          0      0      0     319        7     456
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0     234       0      0       0          0      0      0       0        0      34
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0    942     303      80   1224       0          0      0      0     160      166     422
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                               2
Turn Type                                   Perm     Prot                                           Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       2                1      6                                                4
Permitted Phases                                2                                                       4                4
Actuated Green, G (s)                70.8    70.8     7.0    81.8                                    38.7    38.7     38.7
Effective Green, g (s)               73.3    73.3     8.0    84.3                                    39.7    39.7     39.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.56    0.56    0.06    0.65                                    0.31    0.31     0.31
Clearance Time (s)                    5.5     5.5     4.0     5.5                                     4.0     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 4.0     4.0     3.0     4.0                                     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   2867     893     211   3297                                      513     516      483
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.19            0.02   c0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.19                                                    0.10    0.10    c0.27
v/c Ratio                            0.33    0.34    0.38    0.37                                    0.31    0.32     0.87
Uniform Delay, d1                    15.2    15.3    58.6    10.6                                    34.7    34.8     42.8
Progression Factor                   0.73    0.73    1.32    0.40                                    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                 0.3     1.0     1.1     0.3                                     0.3     0.4     15.9
Delay (s)                            11.3    12.2    78.5     4.5                                    35.0    35.1     58.7
Level of Service                        B       B       E       A                                       D       D        E
Approach Delay (s)                   11.6                     9.1                      0.0                   48.9
Approach LOS                            B                       A                        A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     18.8      HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                  6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           53.3%       ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                           EER
Page 2                                                                                       Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & On-ramp                                                              Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91    1.00   0.95       0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1696    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1696    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    792      307        8    738     245    418         29       79      0       0       0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89     0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89   0.89       0.89     0.89   0.89    0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0    890      345        9    829     275    470         33       89      0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       94        0      0      64      0          0       72      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0    890      251        9    829     211    245        258       17      0       0       0
Turn Type                                    Perm      Prot          Perm    Split              Perm
Protected Phases                        2                 1     6               8          8
Permitted Phases                                 2                      6                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)                 91.5    91.5      1.2   96.7   96.7        23.3    23.3   23.3
Effective Green, g (s)                94.5    94.5      2.2   99.7   99.7        24.3    24.3   24.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.73    0.73     0.02   0.77   0.77        0.19    0.19   0.19
Clearance Time (s)                     6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0    6.0         4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0      2.0    4.0    4.0         2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3696     1151       30   3900   1214         314     317    296
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.18            c0.01   0.16               0.15   c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.16                    0.13                      0.01
v/c Ratio                             0.24    0.22     0.30   0.21    0.17       0.78    0.81   0.06
Uniform Delay, d1                      5.9     5.8     63.1    4.2     4.1       50.3    50.7   43.4
Progression Factor                    0.43    1.15     0.68   2.07    9.02       1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  0.1     0.4      2.0    0.1     0.3       11.0    14.0    0.0
Delay (s)                              2.7     7.0     45.2    8.9    37.1       61.3    64.7   43.5
Level of Service                         A       A        D      A       D          E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                     3.9                    16.1                       60.1                    0.0
Approach LOS                             A                       B                          E                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      19.8       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.36
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            34.3%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 3                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Shady Willow Rd                                                      Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95           0.97     1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      0.99           1.00     1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.88           1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080           3433     1863    1563
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080           3433     1863    1563
Volume (vph)                     74    614      91       54    904       29     39        47     191     42        35      24
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  82    682     101       60   1004       32     43        52     212     47        39      27
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      34        0      0       10       0      185       0       0        0      24
Lane Group Flow (vph)            82    682      67       60   1004       22     43        79       0     47        39       3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1              1        1               1       1                1       1                1
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                     Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)          7.2    83.5    83.5      7.7    84.0   84.0      5.9      15.4            5.4    14.9    14.9
Effective Green, g (s)         8.2    86.5    86.5      8.7    87.0   87.0      6.9      16.4            6.4    15.9    15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.06    0.67    0.67     0.07    0.67   0.67     0.05      0.13           0.05    0.12    0.12
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0     2.0     2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             217    3383    1031      118   2368    1045      182       389           169     228     191
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02    0.13            c0.03   c0.28           c0.01     c0.03          c0.01    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.04                    0.01                                              0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.38    0.20    0.07     0.51    0.42   0.02       0.24    0.20           0.28    0.17    0.02
Uniform Delay, d1             58.5     8.4     7.6     58.6     9.9    7.2       59.0    50.9           59.6    51.1    50.2
Progression Factor            0.93    0.91    1.74     0.92    1.23   1.98       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.1     0.1     0.1      1.2     0.5    0.0        0.7     0.4            0.3     0.1     0.0
Delay (s)                     55.4     7.8    13.3     55.3    12.7   14.3       59.7    51.3           59.9    51.3    50.2
Level of Service                 E       A       B        E       B      B          E       D              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    13.0                     15.1                      52.5                   54.6
Approach LOS                             B                        B                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      21.0       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.38
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            58.2%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 4                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                        Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR     SBL       SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900    1900   1900        1900   1900    1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97        1.00    1.00   0.97      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    0.99   1.00      1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00      1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00        1.00    0.85   1.00      0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562    3433      3145
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562    3433      3145
Volume (vph)                   247    550      26       81    663      80     89          48      41    105        77     223
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90        0.90    0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                274    611      29       90    737      89     99          53      46    117        86     248
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      10        0      0      43      0           0      43       0      222       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          274    611      19       90    737      46     99          53       3    117       112       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                                         1       1
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm       Split          Perm     Split
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                  8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)         26.8   82.5    82.5    10.8     66.5   66.5     8.0        8.0    8.0    12.7       12.7
Effective Green, g (s)        27.8   83.5    83.5    11.8     67.5   67.5     9.0        9.0    9.0    13.7       13.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.21   0.64    0.64    0.09     0.52   0.52    0.07       0.07   0.07    0.11       0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0        4.0    4.0     4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0    4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0     2.0        2.0    2.0     2.0        2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             379   3266    1003     161    1838     822     238        129    108     362       331
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.15   0.12            0.05    c0.21          c0.03       0.03           0.03      c0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                    0.03                      0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.72   0.19    0.02    0.56     0.40   0.06       0.42    0.41   0.03    0.32       0.34
Uniform Delay, d1             47.5    9.5     8.4    56.6     19.0   15.5       58.0    58.0   56.4    53.9       53.9
Progression Factor            1.15   0.49    0.18    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          5.6    0.1     0.0     2.4      0.7    0.1        0.4     0.8    0.0     0.2        0.2
Delay (s)                     60.3    4.8     1.6    59.0     19.6   15.6       58.4    58.7   56.5    54.0       54.2
Level of Service                 E      A       A       E        B      B          E       E      E       D          D
Approach Delay (s)                   21.3                     23.1                      58.0                      54.1
Approach LOS                            C                        C                         E                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     30.9       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           58.0%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 5                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                      Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0            3.0       3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97       0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     0.83    1.00    1.00    0.92   1.00       0.95           1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.94           1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539    1308     1770    3539   1454    3433       3150           2000     3508
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539    1308     1770    3539   1454    3433       3150           1770     3508
Volume (vph)                    35    689      164     228     921     185    298        245     174    353      457      17
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89     0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89   0.89       0.89    0.89   0.89     0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                 39    774      184     256    1035     208    335        275     196    397      513      19
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       48       0       0      36      0        102       0      0         2      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           39    774      136     256    1035     172    335        369       0    397      530       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             44             101     101              44     58                 69     69               58
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                             31                      15                        13                       5
Turn Type                     Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5      2                 1     6                   3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)          7.3    33.7    33.7     23.2   49.6    49.6       17.5    24.3           30.3    37.1
Effective Green, g (s)         8.8    35.7    35.7     24.7   51.6    51.6       19.0    25.8           31.8    38.6
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07    0.27    0.27     0.19   0.40    0.40       0.15    0.20           0.24    0.30
Clearance Time (s)             4.5     5.0     5.0      4.5    5.0     5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     7.0     7.0      3.0    7.0     7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             120     972     359      336   1405     577        502     625            489    1042
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02   c0.22            c0.14   0.29               0.10   c0.12          c0.20    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.12
v/c Ratio                     0.33    0.80    0.38     0.76   0.74    0.30       0.67    0.59           0.81    0.51
Uniform Delay, d1             57.8    43.8    38.2     49.9   33.4    26.8       52.5    47.3           46.3    37.8
Progression Factor            1.18    1.24    1.57     1.08   0.54    0.32       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.5     6.3     2.8      6.0    2.1     0.8        3.3     1.5           10.4     0.4
Delay (s)                     69.7    60.6    62.7     59.7   20.2     9.4       55.9    48.8           56.7    38.2
Level of Service                 E       E       E        E      C       A          E       D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                    61.3                    25.4                       51.7                   46.1
Approach LOS                             E                       C                          D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      43.4       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.75
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            89.7%        ICU Level of Service                     E
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 6                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                      Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900   1900    1900    1900       1900   1900   1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0        3.0           3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00   1.00       0.95          0.91      0.91    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.96    1.00   1.00     0.96   1.00       1.00          1.00      1.00    0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00          1.00      1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00   1.00     0.85   1.00       0.97          1.00       1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00          0.95      0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1519    1770       3421          1900      3275    1554
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00          0.95      0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1519    1770       3421          1610      3275    1554
Volume (vph)                   218    561      18      24    952      213     36         53     13    405         85     329
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90   0.90       0.90   0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                242    623      20      27   1058      237     40         59     14    450         94     366
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       9       0      0      113      0         13      0      0          0     296
Lane Group Flow (vph)          242    623      11      27   1058      124     40         60      0    225       319       70
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             18             20      20              18      5                10     10                  5
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            12                       9
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm     Prot           Perm       Split                  Split            Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                1      6                  8       8              4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                      6                                                  4
Actuated Green, G (s)         26.6   71.6    71.6     4.2    48.7   48.7     11.8      11.8           22.9     22.9    22.9
Effective Green, g (s)        28.6   73.6    73.6     5.7    50.7   50.7     13.8      13.8           24.9     24.9    24.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.22   0.57    0.57    0.04    0.39   0.39     0.11      0.11           0.19     0.19    0.19
Clearance Time (s)             5.0    5.0     5.0     4.5     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          5.0    5.0     5.0     3.0     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             389   2004     858      78   1380     592      188       363            364      627     298
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.14   0.18            0.02   c0.30           c0.02      0.02          c0.12     0.10
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                   0.08                                               0.05
v/c Ratio                     0.62   0.31    0.01    0.35    0.77   0.21       0.21    0.17           0.62     0.51    0.24
Uniform Delay, d1             45.8   14.8    12.3    60.3    34.5   26.3       53.1    52.9           48.2     47.1    44.5
Progression Factor            1.46   1.14    2.18    1.23    0.76   0.64       1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.9    0.4     0.0     2.4     3.7    0.7        1.2     0.5            4.5      1.4     0.9
Delay (s)                     70.9   17.3    26.9    76.6    29.9   17.5       54.3    53.3           52.7     48.4    45.3
Level of Service                 E      B       C       E       C      B          D       D              D        D       D
Approach Delay (s)                   32.2                    28.7                      53.7                    48.2
Approach LOS                            C                       C                         D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     36.0      HCM Level of Service                     D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           67.2%       ICU Level of Service                    C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 7                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                        Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0            3.0        3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91            1.00    0.91           1.00       1.00          1.00      1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00          1.00      1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00          1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       0.87           1.00     0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5057            1770    5061           1770       1612          1770     1661
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.64       1.00           0.37     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5057            1770    5061           1188       1612           696     1661
Volume (vph)                    20    884      30       59   1119      37     39         14    123      24       16     41
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93   0.93       0.93   0.93   0.93     0.93    0.93
Adj. Flow (vph)                 22    951      32       63   1203      40     42         15    132      26       17     44
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      1       0        0      1       0      0        121      0       0       40      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           22    982       0       63   1242       0     42         26      0      26       21      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1
Turn Type                     Prot                    Prot                  Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                         8                      4
Permitted Phases                                                                   8                     4
Actuated Green, G (s)          5.4   96.8              9.5   100.9               9.2    9.2            9.2     9.2
Effective Green, g (s)         6.9   99.3             11.0   103.4              10.7   10.7           10.7    10.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.05   0.76             0.08    0.80              0.08   0.08           0.08    0.08
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0    6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              94   3863              150    4025                98    133             57     137
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01   0.19            c0.04   c0.25                     0.02                   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                  0.04                 c0.04
v/c Ratio                     0.23   0.25             0.42    0.31              0.43   0.19           0.46    0.15
Uniform Delay, d1             59.0    4.5             56.5     3.6              56.7   55.6           56.9    55.4
Progression Factor            0.93   1.03             1.00    0.70              1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.6    0.1              2.2     0.2               3.0    0.7            5.7     0.5
Delay (s)                     56.6    4.8             58.9     2.7              59.7   56.3           62.6    55.9
Level of Service                 E      A                E       A                 E      E              E       E
Approach Delay (s)                    5.9                      5.4                     57.1                   57.9
Approach LOS                            A                        A                        E                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     11.2       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.33
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           50.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 8                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                     Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95          1.00      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    0.99             1.00    0.99           1.00       1.00          1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00          1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.90             1.00    0.92           1.00       0.99           1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1665             1770    1691           1770       3483          1770     3495
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1665             1770    1691           1770       3483          1770     3495
Volume (vph)                    44      77      143      84      93     117     70        384     31      63      623     26
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90       0.90   0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                 49      86      159      93     103     130     78        427     34      70      692     29
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      39        0       0      26       0       0         2      0       0        1      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           49     206        0      93     207       0     78        459      0      70      720      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              3                2       2               3      45               16      16              45
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                     Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5         2              1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         21.0     21.0            20.6     20.6            9.5      66.4            9.5     66.4
Effective Green, g (s)        21.5     21.5            21.1     21.1           10.0      67.9           10.0     67.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.16     0.16            0.16     0.16           0.08      0.51           0.08     0.51
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5       4.5            3.5      4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0       5.0            3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             287      270             282      269            134      1785            134    1791
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.12            0.05    c0.12          c0.04      0.13          c0.04    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.17     0.76            0.33     0.77              0.58   0.26           0.52     0.40
Uniform Delay, d1             47.8     53.1            49.4     53.4              59.2   18.1           59.0     19.8
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.3     12.0             0.7     12.4               6.3    0.3            3.6      0.7
Delay (s)                     48.1     65.0            50.1     65.8              65.5   18.5           62.6     20.5
Level of Service                 D        E               D        E                 E      B              E        C
Approach Delay (s)                     62.2                     61.3                     25.3                    24.2
Approach LOS                              E                        E                        C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       36.4       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      132.5       Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             54.2%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 9                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
18: Sterling Hill Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                   Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0        3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00    1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98    1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.90             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85    1.00      0.98
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1661            1767    1863   1583    1770       3539   1545    1770     3473
Flt Permitted                 0.69   1.00             0.46   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1280   1661              855   1863   1583    1770       3539   1545    1770     3473
Volume (vph)                   150     50     100       48     67    155      67        459     25      74       561     80
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89   0.89    0.89       0.89   0.89    0.89     0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                169     56     112       54     75    174      75        516     28      83       630     90
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     91       0        0      0    142       0          0      0        0        7      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          169     77       0       54     75     32      75        516     28      83       713      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             2        2                                       9        9
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm        Prot          Free     Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                   5      2               1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                      8               8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)         16.9   16.9            16.9    16.9    16.9        8.3   59.8   100.0     8.8     60.3
Effective Green, g (s)        18.4   18.4            18.4    18.4    18.4        9.3   62.8   100.0     9.8     63.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.18   0.18            0.18    0.18    0.18       0.09   0.63    1.00    0.10     0.63
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5             4.5     4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0             3.5     3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             236    306             157     343     291        165   2222   1545      173    2198
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.05                    0.04               0.04   0.15           c0.05    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm               c0.13                   0.06            0.02                     c0.02
v/c Ratio                     0.72   0.25            0.34    0.22    0.11       0.45   0.23    0.02    0.48     0.32
Uniform Delay, d1             38.3   34.9            35.5    34.7    34.0       42.9    8.1     0.0    42.7      8.5
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.14     0.44
Incremental Delay, d2          9.9    0.4             1.6     0.4     0.2        2.0    0.2     0.0     2.0      0.4
Delay (s)                     48.2   35.3            37.1    35.1    34.2       44.9    8.3     0.0    50.6      4.1
Level of Service                 D      D               D       D       C          D      A       A       D        A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.8                    34.9                      12.4                      8.9
Approach LOS                            D                       C                         B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     19.2       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 10                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                          Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900   1900     1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91    1.00   0.97       0.95    0.95   1.00     1.00    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     0.99    1.00    1.00    0.98   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.90    0.85   1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1595    1504   1770     1863   1558
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1595    1504   1770     1863   1558
Volume (vph)                     54   1586      100     480    1256     253    110         55     262    175       56      22
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.96    0.96     0.96    0.96    0.96    0.96   0.96       0.96    0.96   0.96     0.96    0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                  56   1652      104     500    1308     264    115         57     273    182       58      23
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0       22        0      0     106       0        66     142      0        0      20
Lane Group Flow (vph)            56   1652       82     500    1308     158    115        101      21    182       58       3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1               1        1              1       4                                         4
Turn Type                      Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm     Prot              Perm    Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1     6                3         8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                  2                       6                         8                      4
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.0     58.8    58.8     23.9   74.7    74.7       11.8    15.4   15.4    13.9    17.5   17.5
Effective Green, g (s)         9.0     61.8    61.8     24.9   77.7    77.7       12.8    16.4   16.4    14.9    18.5   18.5
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07     0.48    0.48     0.19   0.60    0.60       0.10    0.13   0.13    0.11    0.14   0.14
Clearance Time (s)             4.0      6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0     6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0      4.0     4.0      2.0    6.0     6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0     2.0     6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             123    2417      743      658   3039     925        338     201    190     203     265    222
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.32            c0.15   0.26               0.03   c0.06          c0.10    0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                                 0.05                    0.10                      0.01                   0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.46     0.68    0.11     0.76   0.43    0.17       0.34    0.50   0.11    0.90    0.22   0.01
Uniform Delay, d1             58.1     26.5    18.9     49.7   14.2    11.7       54.7    53.0   50.3    56.8    49.4   47.9
Progression Factor            0.88     0.76    0.91     1.28   0.64    1.09       1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.7      1.2     0.2      3.6    0.4     0.3        0.2     0.7    0.1    35.1     1.2    0.1
Delay (s)                     51.8     21.4    17.4     67.3    9.5    13.1       54.9    53.7   50.4    91.9    50.5   48.0
Level of Service                 D        C       B        E      A       B          D       D      D       F       D      D
Approach Delay (s)                     22.1                    23.9                       52.8                   78.9
Approach LOS                              C                       C                          D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       29.2       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.69
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             75.6%        ICU Level of Service                    D
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 1
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SR-4 Bypass SB Off-Ramp                                              Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900     1900    1900   1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0                                      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    0.97   0.91                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00   1.00                                     1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085     1583    3433   5085                                    1681     1689    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085     1583    3433   5085                                    1681     1689    1583
Volume (vph)                     0   1419      612      98   1440       0          0      0      0     416       10     539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95    0.95       0.95   0.95   0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1494      644     103   1516       0          0      0      0     438       11     567
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      341       0      0       0          0      0      0       0        0      12
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1494      303     103   1516       0          0      0      0     219      230     555
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                                3             3
Turn Type                                    Perm     Prot                                           Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                        2                1      6                                                4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                       4                4
Actuated Green, G (s)                 58.6    58.6     8.8    71.4                                    49.1    49.1     49.1
Effective Green, g (s)                61.1    61.1     9.8    73.9                                    50.1    50.1     50.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.47    0.47    0.08    0.57                                    0.39    0.39     0.39
Clearance Time (s)                     5.5     5.5     4.0     5.5                                     4.0     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0     3.0     4.0                                     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   2390      744     259   2891                                      648     651      610
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.29            0.03   c0.30
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.19                                                    0.13    0.14    c0.35
v/c Ratio                             0.63    0.41    0.40    0.52                                    0.34    0.35     0.91
Uniform Delay, d1                     25.9    22.6    57.3    17.2                                    28.2    28.4     37.8
Progression Factor                    0.58    1.48    1.11    0.53                                    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  1.0     1.3     0.9     0.6                                     0.3     0.3     17.8
Delay (s)                             15.9    34.7    64.5     9.8                                    28.5    28.8     55.6
Level of Service                         B       C       E       A                                       C       C        E
Approach Delay (s)                    21.6                    13.2                      0.0                   43.7
Approach LOS                             C                       B                        A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      23.5      HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                  9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            67.9%       ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                              11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                       Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & On-ramp                                                                 Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL       EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                      3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                       0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91     1.00   0.95      0.95     1.00
Frt                                     1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                           1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                       5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1697    1583
Flt Permitted                           0.94     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                       4763    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1697    1583
Volume (vph)                     5      1540      373       21   1014      357    541        43      137      0       0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.91      0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91     0.91   0.91      0.91     0.91   0.91    0.91   0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  5      1692      410       23   1114      392    595        47      151      0       0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0         0      125        0      0      107      0         0      117      0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      1697      285      23    1114      285    313       329       34      0       0      0
Turn Type                    Perm               Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm
Protected Phases                           2                 1      6               8         8
Permitted Phases                    2               2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)                   83.3     83.3     4.2     91.5   91.5       28.5    28.5   28.5
Effective Green, g (s)                  86.3     86.3     5.2     94.5   94.5       29.5    29.5   29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.66     0.66    0.04     0.73   0.73       0.23    0.23   0.23
Clearance Time (s)                       6.0      6.0     4.0      6.0    6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                    4.0      4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0        2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                      3162     1051      71    3696    1151        381     385    359
v/s Ratio Prot                                           0.01    c0.22              0.19   c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                          c0.36    0.18                    0.18                      0.02
v/c Ratio                                0.54    0.27    0.32     0.30   0.25       0.82    0.85   0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                        11.4     9.0    60.7      6.2    5.9       47.7    48.2   39.7
Progression Factor                       0.22    0.00    0.87     1.04   1.76       1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                     0.6     0.6     0.9      0.2    0.5       12.7    16.1    0.0
Delay (s)                                 3.1     0.6    53.9      6.6   10.9       60.4    64.3   39.7
Level of Service                            A       A       D        A      B          E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                        2.6                      8.4                      58.1                    0.0
Approach LOS                                A                        A                         E                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                         14.5       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                      0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                        130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization               78.1%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                               15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                  11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                           Page 3
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Slaten Ranch                                                         Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0            3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95           0.97     1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.90           1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174           3433     1863    1561
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174           3433     1863    1561
Volume (vph)                   217    1028     256     160     986       55     51        76     167    114        67     101
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94     0.94   0.94      0.94    0.94   0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                231    1094     272     170    1049       59     54        81     178    121        71     107
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0     118        0      0       21       0      155       0      0         0      90
Lane Group Flow (vph)          231    1094     154     170    1049       38     54       104       0    121        71      17
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2              1        1               2       2                                         2
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                     Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         13.2    70.5    70.5     16.1    73.4   73.4      6.3      15.6            9.8    19.1    19.1
Effective Green, g (s)        14.2    73.5    73.5     17.1    76.4   76.4      7.3      16.6           10.8    20.1    20.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11    0.57    0.57     0.13    0.59   0.59     0.06      0.13           0.08    0.15    0.15
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0     2.0     2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             375    2875     876      233   2080     917      193       405            285     288     241
v/s Ratio Prot                0.07    0.22            c0.10   c0.30           c0.02     c0.03          c0.04    0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.02                                              0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.62    0.38    0.18     0.73    0.50   0.04       0.28    0.26           0.42    0.25    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1             55.3    15.6    13.6     54.2    15.7   11.3       58.8    51.1           56.6    48.3    47.0
Progression Factor            1.06    0.85    1.50     0.98    1.13   1.99       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.0     0.4     0.4      8.7     0.8    0.1        0.8     0.5            0.4     0.2     0.0
Delay (s)                     61.4    13.8    20.8     61.9    18.6   22.6       59.6    51.6           57.0    48.5    47.0
Level of Service                 E       B       C        E       B      C          E       D              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    21.8                     24.6                      53.0                   51.4
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      28.2       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            61.4%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 4
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                        Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900      1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      1.00     1.00   0.97      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00     0.97   1.00      1.00     0.99   1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85   1.00      0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562    3433      3124
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562    3433      3124
Volume (vph)                   316     809     112       53    772      129     76        46       36    231       115    289
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98      0.98     0.98   0.98      0.98   0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                322     826     114       54    788      132     78        47       37    236       117    295
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      43        0      0       73      0         0       34       0      257      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          322     826      71       54    788       59     78        47        3    236       155      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               3              1        1               3      3                  1       1               3
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm     Split
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6               8         8                4        4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)         30.6    80.4    80.4     7.0     56.8   56.8       10.9    10.9   10.9     15.7     15.7
Effective Green, g (s)        31.6    81.4    81.4     8.0     57.8   57.8       11.9    11.9   11.9     16.7     16.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.24    0.63    0.63    0.06     0.44   0.44       0.09    0.09   0.09     0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0     4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             430    3184     978     109    1573     685        314     171    143      441      401
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.18    0.16            0.03    c0.22              0.02   c0.03           c0.07     0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.05                    0.04                      0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.75    0.26    0.07    0.50     0.50   0.09       0.25    0.27   0.02     0.54     0.39
Uniform Delay, d1             45.5    10.8     9.5    59.0     25.8   20.8       54.9    55.0   53.8     53.0     52.0
Progression Factor            1.57    0.59    0.36    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          5.9     0.2     0.1     1.3      1.1    0.2        0.2     0.3    0.0      0.6      0.2
Delay (s)                     77.1     6.6     3.5    60.3     26.9   21.1       55.0    55.3   53.8     53.6     52.2
Level of Service                 E       A       A       E        C      C          E       E      D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                    24.3                     28.0                      54.8                     52.7
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      33.2       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.55
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            70.7%        ICU Level of Service                    C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 5
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                      Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0            3.0       3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97       0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     0.91    1.00    1.00    0.97   1.00       0.99           1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.94           1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539    1435     1770    3539   1531    3433       3297           2000     3498
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539    1435     1770    3539   1531    3433       3297           1770     3498
Volume (vph)                    87    903      169     238     588     154    205        365     241    168      191      14
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97   0.97       0.97    0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                 90    931      174     245     606     159    211        376     248    173      197      14
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       34       0       0      46      0         87       0      0         5      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           90    931      140     245     606     113    211        537       0    173      206       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             12              54      54              12     11                  8      8               11
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                             11                       9
Turn Type                     Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5      2                 1     6                   3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)         11.8    48.0    48.0     21.3   57.5    57.5       12.9    25.1           17.1    29.3
Effective Green, g (s)        13.3    50.0    50.0     22.8   59.5    59.5       14.4    26.6           18.6    30.8
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10    0.38    0.38     0.18   0.46    0.46       0.11    0.20           0.14    0.24
Clearance Time (s)             4.5     5.0     5.0      4.5    5.0     5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     7.0     7.0      3.0    7.0     7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             181   1361      552      310   1620     701        380     675            286     829
v/s Ratio Prot                0.05   c0.26            c0.14   0.17               0.06   c0.16          c0.09    0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.07
v/c Ratio                     0.50    0.68    0.25     0.79   0.37    0.16       0.56    0.79           0.60    0.25
Uniform Delay, d1             55.2    33.4    27.3     51.3   23.1    20.6       54.8    49.1           52.3    40.2
Progression Factor            1.42    0.60    0.60     1.06   1.69    2.52       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.9     2.4     1.0     11.0    0.6     0.4        1.8     6.4            4.1     0.2
Delay (s)                     80.1    22.5    17.4     65.3   39.5    52.5       56.5    55.5           56.4    40.4
Level of Service                 F       C       B        E      D       D          E       E              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                    26.1                    47.8                       55.8                   47.6
Approach LOS                             C                       D                          E                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      42.2       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            80.0%        ICU Level of Service                    D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 6
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                   Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                    EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)          1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)          3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0            3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor           1.00   0.95     1.00   1.00    0.91     1.00   1.00     0.95           0.91      0.91     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes             1.00   1.00     0.96   1.00    1.00     0.96   1.00     0.99           1.00      1.00     0.97
Flpb, ped/bikes             1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00           1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                         1.00   1.00     0.85   1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00     0.97           1.00       1.00    0.85
Flt Protected               0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00           0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)           1770   3539    1521    1770    5085    1519    1770     3388           2000      3263    1534
Flt Permitted               0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00           0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)           1770   3539    1521    1770    5085    1519    1770     3388           1610      3263    1534
Volume (vph)                 232   1029       22     43     868      369     17       87      26    551         77     153
Peak-hour factor, PHF       0.88   0.88     0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88   0.88     0.88    0.88   0.88      0.88     0.88
Adj. Flow (vph)              264   1169       25     49     986      419     19       99      30    626         88     174
RTOR Reduction (vph)           0      0        9      0       0      272      0       25       0      0          0     137
Lane Group Flow (vph)        264   1169       16     49     986      147     19      104       0    313       401       37
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)           18              20     20               18     14               16     16                 14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            3                       8                       1                         1
Turn Type                   Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Split                   Split            Perm
Protected Phases               5      2                1       6               8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                               2                       6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)       23.2    62.0    62.0     5.2   43.5     43.5    17.4     17.4           25.9     25.9    25.9
Effective Green, g (s)      25.2    64.0    64.0     6.7   45.5     45.5    19.4     19.4           27.9     27.9    27.9
Actuated g/C Ratio          0.19    0.49    0.49    0.05   0.35     0.35    0.15     0.15           0.21     0.21    0.21
Clearance Time (s)           5.0     5.0     5.0     4.5    5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)        5.0     5.0     5.0     3.0    5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           343   1742      749      91   1780      532     264      506            429      700     329
v/s Ratio Prot             c0.15   c0.33            0.03   0.19             0.01    c0.03          c0.16     0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.01                    0.10                                             0.02
v/c Ratio                   0.77    0.67    0.02    0.54    0.55    0.28    0.07     0.21           0.73    0.87dl   0.11
Uniform Delay, d1           49.7    25.0    16.9    60.1    34.1    30.4    47.6     48.5           47.5      45.7   41.1
Progression Factor          0.80    0.70    0.35    1.13    0.89    1.16    1.00     1.00           1.00      1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       10.7     1.9     0.0     5.2     1.1     1.1     0.2      0.4            7.5       1.8    0.3
Delay (s)                   50.2    19.5     5.9    73.4    31.2    36.3    47.8     49.0           55.0      47.5   41.4
Level of Service               D       B       A       E       C       D       D        D              E         D      D
Approach Delay (s)                  24.8                    34.1                     48.8                     49.0
Approach LOS                           C                       C                        D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  34.6          HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.63
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 130.0          Sum of lost time (s)                9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization        69.8%           ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                        15
dl Defacto Left Lane. Recode with 1 though lane as a left lane.
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                             11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                      Page 7
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                          Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0               3.0    3.0             3.0       3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91             1.00    0.91            1.00      1.00          1.00      1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00          1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00          1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      0.86           1.00     0.90
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5060             1770    5067           1767       1605          1770     1652
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.74      1.00           0.40     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5060             1770    5067           1372       1605           742     1652
Volume (vph)                     18   1542       44     121    1222      24      35        10    114      42        9     20
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97    0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97      0.97   0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                  19   1590       45     125    1260      25      36        10    118      43        9     21
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      1        0        0      1       0       0       105      0       0       19      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            19   1634        0     125    1284       0      36        23      0      43       11      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               4               4        4              4       1                                        1
Turn Type                      Prot                     Prot                  Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1      6                         8                      4
Permitted Phases                                                                     8                     4
Actuated Green, G (s)          3.7     87.4             15.3    99.0              12.8   12.8           12.8    12.8
Effective Green, g (s)         5.2     89.9             16.8   101.5              14.3   14.3           14.3    14.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04     0.69             0.13    0.78              0.11   0.11           0.11    0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.5      5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0      6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              71    3499               229    3956               151    177             82     182
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01    c0.32            c0.07    0.25                     0.01                   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                    0.03                 c0.06
v/c Ratio                     0.27     0.47             0.55    0.32              0.24   0.13           0.52    0.06
Uniform Delay, d1             60.6      9.1             53.0     4.2              52.9   52.2           54.6    51.8
Progression Factor            0.91     0.80             0.89    1.56              1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.1      0.3              2.4     0.2               0.8    0.3            5.9     0.1
Delay (s)                     57.5      7.7             49.7     6.7              53.7   52.6           60.6    52.0
Level of Service                 E        A                D       A                 D      D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                      8.3                     10.5                     52.8                   57.0
Approach LOS                              A                        B                        D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       12.5       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             61.7%        ICU Level of Service                    B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 8
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                     Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95          1.00      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    0.99           1.00       1.00          1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00          1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.91             1.00    0.93           1.00       0.99           1.00     0.98
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1690             1770    1710           1770       3482          1770     3458
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1690             1770    1710           1770       3482          1770     3458
Volume (vph)                    42      51       82      34      50      45     73        514     49      89      543     63
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 46      55       89      37      54      49      79       559     53      97      590     68
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      36        0       0      20       0       0         2      0       0        3      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           46     108        0      37      83       0     79        610      0      97      655      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             10                                       10      20                7       7              20
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                     Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5         2              1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         12.3     12.3             9.4      9.4            8.9      69.2            9.9     70.2
Effective Green, g (s)        12.8     12.8             9.9      9.9            9.4      70.7           10.4     71.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11     0.11            0.09     0.09           0.08      0.61           0.09     0.62
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5       4.5            3.5      4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0       5.0            3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             196      187             151      146            144      2126            159    2141
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.06            0.02    c0.05          c0.04      0.18          c0.05    c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.23     0.58            0.25     0.57              0.55   0.29           0.61     0.31
Uniform Delay, d1             47.0     48.9            49.5     50.9              51.2   10.6           50.7     10.4
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.6      4.2             0.8      5.0               4.2    0.3            6.8      0.4
Delay (s)                     47.6     53.1            50.3     55.9              55.4   11.0           57.5     10.7
Level of Service                 D        D               D        E                 E      B              E        B
Approach Delay (s)                     51.8                     54.4                     16.1                    16.7
Approach LOS                              D                        D                        B                       B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       23.2       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.42
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      115.8       Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             51.3%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 9
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
18: Laurel Rd. & Hillcrest Ave                                                          Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00    1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98    1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.89             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85    1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1634            1768    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550    1770     3494
Flt Permitted                 0.75   1.00             0.74   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1400   1634            1374    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550    1770     3494
Volume (vph)                    17      7      22       35      9    133       27       535     39     162       626     50
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98   0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98   0.98    0.98       0.98   0.98    0.98     0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                 17      7      22       36      9    136       28       546     40     165       639     51
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     20       0        0      0    123        0         0      0        0        2      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           17      9       0       36      9     13       28       546     40     165       688      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                      2                2        2               2
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm     Prot             Free     Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                5         2               1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                       8              8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.4    8.4              8.4    8.4     8.4        3.4   62.6   100.0    14.5     73.7
Effective Green, g (s)         9.9    9.9              9.9    9.9     9.9        4.4   65.6   100.0    15.5     76.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10   0.10             0.10   0.10    0.10       0.04   0.66    1.00    0.16     0.77
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5              4.5    4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0              3.5    3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             139    162              136    184     157         78   2322   1550      274    2680
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.01                    0.00               0.02   0.15           c0.09    c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                0.01                   c0.03           0.01                      0.03
v/c Ratio                     0.12   0.06             0.26   0.05    0.09       0.36   0.24    0.03    0.60     0.26
Uniform Delay, d1             41.1   40.8             41.7   40.8    40.9       46.4    7.0     0.0    39.4      3.4
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.22     0.16
Incremental Delay, d2          0.4    0.1              1.2    0.1     0.3        2.8    0.2     0.0     3.4      0.2
Delay (s)                     41.5   41.0             42.9   40.9    41.2       49.2    7.2     0.0    51.6      0.7
Level of Service                 D      D                D      D       D          D      A       A       D        A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.2                    41.5                       8.7                     10.6
Approach LOS                            D                       D                         A                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     14.0       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.31
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           48.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                      Page 10
Near-Term With Project
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                        Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    0.91     1.00   0.97      0.95     0.95   1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.87     0.85   1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085   1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1540    1504    1770     1863    1583
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085   1583     3433    5085    1583    3433      1540    1504    1770     1863    1583
Volume (vph)                     49    971      65     211    1119      233     76        14      184    386       31       94
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90     0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  54   1079      72     234    1243      259     84        16      204    429       34      104
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      19        0      0      103       0       96       96       0       0       83
Lane Group Flow (vph)            54   1079      53     234    1243      156     84        22        6    429       34       21
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot             Perm     Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8                7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8                        4
Actuated Green, G (s)          4.8    66.9    66.9     13.2    75.3   75.3        6.6     6.9    6.9     25.0     25.3   25.3
Effective Green, g (s)         5.8    69.9    69.9     14.2    78.3   78.3        7.6     7.9    7.9     26.0     26.3   26.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04    0.54    0.54     0.11    0.60   0.60       0.06    0.06   0.06     0.20     0.20   0.20
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0     4.0     4.0      2.0     6.0    6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0      6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              79    2734     851      375   3063     953        201      94     91      354      377    320
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.03    0.21            c0.07   c0.24              0.02   c0.01           c0.24     0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.03                    0.10                      0.00                     0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.68    0.39    0.06     0.62    0.41   0.16       0.42    0.24   0.07     1.21     0.09   0.07
Uniform Delay, d1             61.2    17.6    14.4     55.3    13.6   11.4       59.1    58.2   57.6     52.0     42.1   41.9
Progression Factor            0.83    0.58    0.43     1.23    0.61   0.79       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         15.5     0.4     0.1      2.1     0.4    0.3        0.5     0.5    0.1    118.7      0.3    0.2
Delay (s)                     66.5    10.7     6.3     70.3     8.7    9.3       59.6    58.6   57.7    170.7     42.4   42.2
Level of Service                 E       B       A        E       A      A          E       E      E        F        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                    12.9                     17.1                      58.6                    139.4
Approach LOS                             B                        B                         E                        F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      37.3       HCM Level of Service                     D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            63.0%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 1                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SR-4 Bypass SB Off-Ramp                                            Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0                                       3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00    0.97   0.91                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583    3433   5085                                     1681     1689    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583    3433   5085                                     1681     1689    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    998     528      72   1142       0          0      0       0     287        6     435
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90    0.90       0.90   0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1109     587      80   1269       0          0      0       0     319        7     483
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0     266       0      0       0          0      0       0       0        0      30
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1109     321      80   1269       0          0      0       0     160      166     453
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                               2
Turn Type                                   Perm     Prot                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       2                1      6                                                 4
Permitted Phases                                2                                                        4                4
Actuated Green, G (s)                68.5    68.5     7.0    79.5                                     41.0    41.0     41.0
Effective Green, g (s)               71.0    71.0     8.0    82.0                                     42.0    42.0     42.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.55    0.55    0.06    0.63                                     0.32    0.32     0.32
Clearance Time (s)                    5.5     5.5     4.0     5.5                                      4.0     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 4.0     4.0     3.0     4.0                                      3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   2777     865     211   3207                                       543     546      511
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.22            0.02   c0.25
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.20                                                     0.10    0.10    c0.29
v/c Ratio                            0.40    0.37    0.38    0.40                                     0.29    0.30     0.89
Uniform Delay, d1                    17.1    16.8    58.6    11.8                                     32.9    33.0     41.7
Progression Factor                   0.83    1.33    1.30    0.40                                     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                 0.4     1.0     1.1     0.4                                      0.3     0.3     16.8
Delay (s)                            14.5    23.3    77.4     5.1                                     33.2    33.3     58.5
Level of Service                        B       C       E       A                                        C       C        E
Approach Delay (s)                   17.5                     9.4                      0.0                    48.4
Approach LOS                            B                       A                        A                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     21.2      HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           55.7%       ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                            EER
Page 2                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & On-ramp                                                            Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.91    1.00   0.95       0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085   1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1695    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085   1583     1770    5085   1583    1681       1695    1583
Volume (vph)                     0    867     382        8    763     245    433         29       79      0       0       0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89   0.89       0.89     0.89   0.89    0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0    974     429        9    857     275    487         33       89      0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0     119        0      0      66      0          0       72      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0    974     310        9    857     209    253        267       17      0       0       0
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot          Perm    Split              Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1     6               8          8
Permitted Phases                                2                      6                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)                90.8    90.8      1.2   96.0   96.0        24.0    24.0   24.0
Effective Green, g (s)               93.8    93.8      2.2   99.0   99.0        25.0    25.0   25.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.72    0.72     0.02   0.76   0.76        0.19    0.19   0.19
Clearance Time (s)                    6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0    6.0         4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 4.0     4.0      2.0    4.0    4.0         2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3669    1142       30   3872   1206         323     326    304
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.19            c0.01   0.17               0.15   c0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.20                    0.13                      0.01
v/c Ratio                            0.27    0.27     0.30   0.22    0.17       0.78    0.82   0.06
Uniform Delay, d1                     6.2     6.3     63.1    4.4     4.3       49.9    50.3   42.9
Progression Factor                   0.45    1.92     0.66   1.91    7.79       1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                 0.2     0.6      2.0    0.1     0.3       10.9    14.0    0.0
Delay (s)                             3.0    12.6     43.8    8.6    33.5       60.8    64.4   42.9
Level of Service                        A       B        D      A       C          E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                    5.9                    14.9                       59.7                    0.0
Approach LOS                            A                       B                          E                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     19.6       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.38
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           36.2%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 3                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Shady Willow Rd                                                     Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95           0.97     1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      0.99           1.00     1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.88           1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080           3433     1863    1563
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1562    3433      3080           3433     1863    1563
Volume (vph)                     74    689      91       54    929       29     39        47     191     42        35      24
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  82    766     101       60   1032       32     43        52     212     47        39      27
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      34        0      0        9       0      185       0       0        0      24
Lane Group Flow (vph)            82    766      67       60   1032       23     43        79       0     47        39       3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1              1        1               1       1                1       1                1
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                     Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)          7.2    83.5    83.5      7.7    84.0   84.0      5.9      15.4            5.4    14.9    14.9
Effective Green, g (s)         8.2    86.5    86.5      8.7    87.0   87.0      6.9      16.4            6.4    15.9    15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.06    0.67    0.67     0.07    0.67   0.67     0.05      0.13           0.05    0.12    0.12
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0     2.0     2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             217    3383    1031      118   2368    1045      182       389           169     228     191
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02    0.15            c0.03   c0.29           c0.01     c0.03          c0.01    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.04                    0.01                                              0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.38    0.23    0.07     0.51    0.44   0.02       0.24    0.20           0.28    0.17    0.02
Uniform Delay, d1             58.5     8.6     7.6     58.6    10.0    7.2       59.0    50.9           59.6    51.1    50.2
Progression Factor            0.99    0.91    1.55     0.83    1.60   2.75       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.1     0.2     0.1      1.2     0.5    0.0        0.7     0.4            0.3     0.1     0.0
Delay (s)                     58.7     8.0    11.9     49.9    16.6   19.8       59.7    51.3           59.9    51.3    50.2
Level of Service                 E       A       B        D       B      B          E       D              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    12.8                     18.5                      52.5                   54.6
Approach LOS                             B                        B                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      22.1       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.39
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            58.2%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 4                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                       Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900    1900   1900        1900   1900    1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97        1.00    1.00   0.97      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    0.99   1.00      1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00      1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00        1.00    0.85   1.00      0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562    3433      3139
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95        1.00    1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5085   1562     1770    3539    1583   3433        1863   1562    3433      3139
Volume (vph)                   292    580      26       81    673      80     89          48      41    105        77     238
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90        0.90    0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                324    644      29       90    748      89     99          53      46    117        86     264
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      10        0      0      51      0           0      43       0      236       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          324    644      19       90    748      38     99          53       3    117       114       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                                         1       1
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm       Split          Perm     Split
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                  8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)         38.4   82.4    82.4    10.8     54.8   54.8     8.0        8.0     8.0    12.8      12.8
Effective Green, g (s)        39.4   83.4    83.4    11.8     55.8   55.8     9.0        9.0     9.0    13.8      13.8
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.30   0.64    0.64    0.09     0.43   0.43    0.07       0.07    0.07    0.11      0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0     4.0       4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0    4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0     2.0        2.0     2.0     2.0       2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             536   3262    1002     161    1519     679     238        129     108     364      333
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.18   0.13            0.05    c0.21          c0.03       0.03            0.03     c0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                    0.02                       0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.60   0.20    0.02    0.56     0.49   0.06       0.42    0.41    0.03    0.32      0.34
Uniform Delay, d1             38.7    9.6     8.5    56.6     26.9   21.7       58.0    58.0    56.4    53.8      53.9
Progression Factor            0.77   0.46    0.14    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.3    0.1     0.0     2.4      1.1    0.2        0.4     0.8     0.0     0.2       0.2
Delay (s)                     31.2    4.6     1.2    59.0     28.0   21.9       58.4    58.7    56.5    54.0      54.1
Level of Service                 C      A       A       E        C      C          E       E       E       D         D
Approach Delay (s)                   13.1                     30.4                      58.0                      54.1
Approach LOS                            B                        C                         E                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     30.1       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           61.3%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                              EER
Page 5                                                                                          Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                    Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0            3.0       3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.83    1.00    1.00     0.92   1.00      0.95           1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.94           1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539   1308     1770    3539    1454    3433      3150           2000     3508
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539   1308     1770    3539    1454    3433      3150           1770     3508
Volume (vph)                    35    709     164     228     981      185    298       245     174    353      457      17
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89    0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89      0.89    0.89   0.89     0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                 39    797     184     256    1102      208    335       275     196    397      513      19
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      47       0       0       34      0       102       0      0         2      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           39    797     137     256    1102      174    335       369       0    397      530       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             44            101     101               44     58                69     69               58
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            31                       15                       13                       5
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm       Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                  3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)          7.3   33.7    33.7     23.2    49.6   49.6       17.5    24.3           30.3    37.1
Effective Green, g (s)         8.8   35.7    35.7     24.7    51.6   51.6       19.0    25.8           31.8    38.6
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.07   0.27    0.27     0.19    0.40   0.40       0.15    0.20           0.24    0.30
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    5.0     5.0      4.5     5.0    5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    7.0     7.0      3.0     7.0    7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             120    972     359      336   1405     577        502     625            489    1042
v/s Ratio Prot                0.02   0.23            c0.14   c0.31              0.10   c0.12          c0.20    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.10                    0.12
v/c Ratio                     0.33   0.82    0.38     0.76    0.78   0.30       0.67    0.59           0.81    0.51
Uniform Delay, d1             57.8   44.1    38.2     49.9    34.3   26.9       52.5    47.3           46.3    37.8
Progression Factor            1.18   1.23    1.56     1.08    0.55   0.33       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.5    7.2     2.8      6.0     2.7    0.8        3.3     1.5           10.4     0.4
Delay (s)                     69.7   61.6    62.6     59.7    21.4    9.7       55.9    48.8           56.7    38.2
Level of Service                 E      E       E        E       C      A          E       D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                   62.1                     26.1                      51.7                   46.1
Approach LOS                            E                        C                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     43.7       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           89.7%        ICU Level of Service                     E
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 6                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                     Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900   1900     1900   1900    1900    1900       1900   1900    1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0        3.0            3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00   1.00       0.95           0.91      0.91    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    0.96    1.00   1.00     0.96   1.00       1.00           1.00      1.00    0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00           1.00      1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00    0.85    1.00   1.00     0.85   1.00       0.97           1.00       1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95      0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1519    1770       3421           1900      3275    1554
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00    1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95      0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539   1515     1770   3539    1519    1770       3421           1610      3275    1554
Volume (vph)                   218    581      18      24   1012      213     36         53      13    405         85     329
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90   0.90       0.90    0.90   0.90      0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                242    646      20      27   1124      237     40         59      14    450         94     366
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       9       0      0      106      0         13       0      0          0     296
Lane Group Flow (vph)          242    646      11      27   1124      131     40         60       0    225       319       70
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             18             20      20              18      5                 10     10                  5
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            12                       9
Turn Type                     Prot          Perm     Prot           Perm       Split                   Split            Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                1      6                  8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                                2                      6                                                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)         26.6   71.6    71.6     4.2    48.7   48.7     11.8      11.8            22.9     22.9    22.9
Effective Green, g (s)        28.6   73.6    73.6     5.7    50.7   50.7     13.8      13.8            24.9     24.9    24.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.22   0.57    0.57    0.04    0.39   0.39     0.11      0.11            0.19     0.19    0.19
Clearance Time (s)             5.0    5.0     5.0     4.5     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0             5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          5.0    5.0     5.0     3.0     5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0             5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             389   2004     858      78   1380     592      188       363             364      627     298
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.14   0.18            0.02   c0.32           c0.02      0.02           c0.12     0.10
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                   0.09                                                0.05
v/c Ratio                     0.62   0.32    0.01    0.35    0.81   0.22       0.21    0.17            0.62     0.51    0.24
Uniform Delay, d1             45.8   15.0    12.3    60.3    35.4   26.5       53.1    52.9            48.2     47.1    44.5
Progression Factor            1.46   1.13    2.18    1.23    0.71   0.52       1.00    1.00            1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.9    0.4     0.0     2.4     4.8    0.8        1.2     0.5             4.5      1.4     0.9
Delay (s)                     70.9   17.4    26.9    76.4    30.0   14.6       54.3    53.3            52.7     48.4    45.3
Level of Service                 E      B       C       E       C      B          D       D               D        D       D
Approach Delay (s)                   31.8                    28.2                      53.7                     48.2
Approach LOS                            C                       C                         D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     35.6      HCM Level of Service                     D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           68.9%       ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 7                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                       Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0            3.0        3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.91            1.00    0.91           1.00       1.00           1.00      1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00      1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00           1.00       0.87            1.00     0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   5057            1770    5062           1770       1612           1770     1661
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00            0.95    1.00           0.64       1.00            0.37     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   5057            1770    5062           1188       1612            696     1661
Volume (vph)                    20    904      30       59   1179      37     39         14     123      24       16     41
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93   0.93       0.93    0.93   0.93     0.93    0.93
Adj. Flow (vph)                 22    972      32       63   1268      40     42         15     132      26       17     44
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      1       0        0      1       0      0        121       0       0       40      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           22   1003       0       63   1307       0     42         26       0      26       21      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1
Turn Type                     Prot                    Prot                  Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                 5     2                 1      6                         8                       4
Permitted Phases                                                                   8                      4
Actuated Green, G (s)          5.4   96.8              9.5   100.9               9.2    9.2             9.2     9.2
Effective Green, g (s)         6.9   99.3             11.0   103.4              10.7   10.7            10.7    10.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.05   0.76             0.08    0.80              0.08   0.08            0.08    0.08
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5             4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0    6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              94   3863              150    4026                98    133              57     137
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01   0.20            c0.04   c0.26                     0.02                    0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                  0.04                  c0.04
v/c Ratio                     0.23   0.26             0.42    0.32              0.43   0.19            0.46    0.15
Uniform Delay, d1             59.0    4.5             56.5     3.7              56.7   55.6            56.9    55.4
Progression Factor            0.93   1.05             0.98    0.70              1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.6    0.1              2.2     0.2               3.0    0.7             5.7     0.5
Delay (s)                     56.7    4.9             57.7     2.7              59.7   56.3            62.6    55.9
Level of Service                 E      A                E       A                 E      E               E       E
Approach Delay (s)                    6.0                      5.3                     57.1                    57.9
Approach LOS                            A                        A                        E                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     10.9       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.34
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.9%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 8                                                                                         Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                    Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95           1.00      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    0.99             1.00    0.99           1.00       1.00           1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.90             1.00    0.90           1.00       0.99            1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1665             1770    1667           1770       3483           1770     3495
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1665             1770    1667           1770       3483           1770     3495
Volume (vph)                    44      77      143      84      93     162     70        384      31      78      623     26
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90       0.90    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                 49      86      159      93     103     180     78        427      34      87      692     29
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      39        0       0      35       0       0         3       0       0        2      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           49     206        0      93     248       0     78        458       0      87      719      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              3                2       2               3      45                16      16              45
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                      Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5         2               1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         21.5     21.5            24.9     24.9            9.7      65.9            10.3     66.5
Effective Green, g (s)        22.0     22.0            25.4     25.4           10.2      67.4            10.8     68.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.16     0.16            0.18     0.18           0.07      0.49            0.08     0.49
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5       4.5             3.5      4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0       5.0             3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             283      266             327      308            131      1706             139    1727
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.12            0.05    c0.15          c0.04      0.13           c0.05    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.17     0.77            0.28     0.80              0.60   0.27            0.63     0.42
Uniform Delay, d1             49.9     55.4            48.3     53.7              61.7   20.6            61.4     22.2
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00            1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.3     13.0             0.5     14.1               7.1    0.4             8.5      0.7
Delay (s)                     50.2     68.4            48.8     67.9              68.8   21.0            69.9     22.9
Level of Service                 D        E               D        E                 E      C               E        C
Approach Delay (s)                     65.4                     63.1                     27.9                     28.0
Approach LOS                              E                        E                        C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       40.0       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      137.6       Sum of lost time (s)                  15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             55.9%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                               EER
Page 9                                                                                           Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
18: Sterling Hill Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                  Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0        3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00    1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98    1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.90             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85    1.00      0.98
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1661            1767    1863   1583    1770       3539   1545    1770     3474
Flt Permitted                 0.69   1.00             0.46   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1280   1661              855   1863   1583    1770       3539   1545    1770     3474
Volume (vph)                   150     50     100       48     67    155      67        504     25      74       576     80
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.89   0.89    0.89     0.89   0.89   0.89    0.89       0.89   0.89    0.89     0.89    0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                169     56     112       54     75    174      75        566     28      83       647     90
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     91       0        0      0    142       0          0      0        0        6      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          169     77       0       54     75     32      75        566     28      83       731      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             2        2                                       9        9
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm        Prot          Free     Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                   5      2               1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                      8               8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)         16.9   16.9            16.9    16.9    16.9        8.3   59.8   100.0     8.8     60.3
Effective Green, g (s)        18.4   18.4            18.4    18.4    18.4        9.3   62.8   100.0     9.8     63.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.18   0.18            0.18    0.18    0.18       0.09   0.63    1.00    0.10     0.63
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5             4.5     4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0             3.5     3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             236    306             157     343     291        165   2222   1545      173    2199
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.05                    0.04               0.04   0.16           c0.05    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm               c0.13                   0.06            0.02                     c0.02
v/c Ratio                     0.72   0.25            0.34    0.22    0.11       0.45   0.25    0.02    0.48     0.33
Uniform Delay, d1             38.3   34.9            35.5    34.7    34.0       42.9    8.2     0.0    42.7      8.5
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.14     0.44
Incremental Delay, d2          9.9    0.4             1.6     0.4     0.2        2.0    0.3     0.0     2.0      0.4
Delay (s)                     48.2   35.3            37.1    35.1    34.2       44.9    8.5     0.0    50.6      4.1
Level of Service                 D      D               D       D       C          D      A       A       D        A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.8                    34.9                      12.2                      8.8
Approach LOS                            D                       C                         B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     18.8       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2008                                                                                                             EER
Page 10                                                                                        Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                         Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91    1.00   0.97       0.95    0.95   1.00     1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     0.99    1.00    1.00    0.98   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     0.98
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.90    0.85   1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1595    1504   1770     1863    1558
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085    1562     3433    5085   1547    3433       1595    1504   1770     1863    1558
Volume (vph)                   122    1586      100     480    1256     474    110         55     262    305       56       62
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.96    0.96     0.96    0.96    0.96    0.96   0.96       0.96    0.96   0.96     0.96     0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                127    1652      104     500    1308     494    115         57     273    318       58       65
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0       22        0      0     207       0        66     142      0        0       56
Lane Group Flow (vph)          127    1652       82     500    1308     287    115        101      21    318       58        9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1               1        1              1       4                                          4
Turn Type                      Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm     Prot              Perm    Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1     6                3         8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                  2                       6                         8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)         10.0     58.7    58.7     23.9   72.6    72.6       11.9    15.4   15.4    14.0     17.5   17.5
Effective Green, g (s)        11.0     61.7    61.7     24.9   75.6    75.6       12.9    16.4   16.4    15.0     18.5   18.5
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.08     0.47    0.47     0.19   0.58    0.58       0.10    0.13   0.13    0.12     0.14   0.14
Clearance Time (s)             4.0      6.0     6.0      4.0    6.0     6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0      4.0     4.0      2.0    6.0     6.0        2.0     2.0    2.0     2.0      6.0    6.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             150    2413      741      658   2957     900        341     201    190     204      265    222
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.07    c0.32            c0.15   0.26               0.03   c0.06          c0.18     0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                                 0.05                    0.19                      0.01                    0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.85     0.68    0.11     0.76   0.44    0.32       0.34    0.50   0.11    1.56     0.22   0.04
Uniform Delay, d1             58.7     26.6    18.9     49.7   15.3    14.0       54.6    53.0   50.3    57.5     49.4   48.1
Progression Factor            0.87     0.76    0.91     1.24   0.73    1.48       1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         25.3      1.2     0.2      3.1    0.3     0.6        0.2     0.7    0.1   274.1      1.2    0.2
Delay (s)                     76.3     21.4    17.5     64.7   11.6    21.4       54.8    53.7   50.4   331.6     50.5   48.3
Level of Service                 E        C       B        E      B       C          D       D      D       F        D      D
Approach Delay (s)                     24.9                    25.2                       52.8                   252.8
Approach LOS                              C                       C                          D                       F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       47.3       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             82.8%        ICU Level of Service                     E
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 1
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
9: Lone Tree Way & SR-4 Bypass SB Off-Ramp                                             Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900     1900    1900   1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0                                       3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    0.97   0.91                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00   1.00                                      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085     1583    3433   5085                                     1681     1689    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00                                      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085     1583    3433   5085                                     1681     1689    1583
Volume (vph)                     0   1519      642      98   1576       0          0      0       0     416       10     624
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95    0.95       0.95   0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1599      676     103   1659       0          0      0       0     438       11     657
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      389       0      0       0          0      0       0       0        0       7
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1599      287     103   1659       0          0      0       0     219      230     650
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                                3              3
Turn Type                                    Perm     Prot                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                        2                1      6                                                 4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                       4                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)                 52.7    52.7     8.9    65.6                                    54.9     54.9     54.9
Effective Green, g (s)                55.2    55.2     9.9    68.1                                    55.9     55.9     55.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.42    0.42    0.08    0.52                                    0.43     0.43     0.43
Clearance Time (s)                     5.5     5.5     4.0     5.5                                     4.0      4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0     3.0     4.0                                     3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   2159      672     261   2664                                      723      726      681
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.31            0.03   c0.33
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.18                                                    0.13     0.14    c0.41
v/c Ratio                             0.74    0.43    0.39    0.62                                    0.30     0.32     0.95
Uniform Delay, d1                     31.4    26.3    57.2    21.9                                    24.3     24.4     35.8
Progression Factor                    0.72    1.85    1.05    0.59                                    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  1.5     1.3     0.9     1.0                                     0.2      0.3     23.7
Delay (s)                             24.0    49.9    61.0    14.0                                    24.5     24.7     59.5
Level of Service                         C       D       E       B                                       C        C        E
Approach Delay (s)                    31.7                    16.8                      0.0                    45.4
Approach LOS                             C                       B                        A                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      29.5      HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0      Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            75.8%       ICU Level of Service                    D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                        Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
10: Lone Tree Way & On-ramp                                                             Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91     1.00   0.95      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1696    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    1681      1696    1583
Volume (vph)                     0   1590      428       21   1099      357    592        43      137      0       0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.91   0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91     0.91   0.91      0.91     0.91   0.91    0.91   0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0   1747      470       23   1208      392    651        47      151      0       0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0      148        0      0      115      0         0      114      0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0   1747      322      23    1208      277    340       358       37      0       0      0
Turn Type                                    Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm
Protected Phases                        2                 1      6               8         8
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)                 80.7    80.7     4.2     88.9   88.9       31.1    31.1   31.1
Effective Green, g (s)                83.7    83.7     5.2     91.9   91.9       32.1    32.1   32.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.64    0.64    0.04     0.71   0.71       0.25    0.25   0.25
Clearance Time (s)                     6.0     6.0     4.0      6.0    6.0        4.0     4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0        2.0     2.0    2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   3274     1019      71    3595    1119        415     419    391
v/s Ratio Prot                       c0.34            0.01    c0.24              0.20   c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.20                    0.18                      0.02
v/c Ratio                             0.53    0.32    0.32     0.34   0.25       0.82    0.85   0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                     12.6    10.4    60.7      7.3    6.8       46.2    46.7   37.8
Progression Factor                    0.24    0.03    0.86     1.05   1.90       1.00    1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                  0.5     0.7     0.9      0.2    0.5       11.4    15.0    0.0
Delay (s)                              3.5     1.0    52.8      7.9   13.4       57.6    61.7   37.8
Level of Service                         A       A       D        A      B          E       E      D
Approach Delay (s)                     3.0                      9.9                      55.8                    0.0
Approach LOS                             A                        A                         E                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      14.9       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            54.9%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                        Page 3
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
11: Lone Tree Way & Slaten Ranch                                                        Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0            3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      0.95           0.97     1.00     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.98    1.00    1.00     0.99   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      0.90           1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174           3433     1863    1561
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             3433    5085   1549     1770    3539    1561    3433      3174           3433     1863    1561
Volume (vph)                   217    1078     256     160    1071       55     51        76     167    114        67     101
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94     0.94   0.94      0.94    0.94   0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                231    1147     272     170    1139       59     54        81     178    121        71     107
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0     118        0      0       20       0      155       0      0         0      90
Lane Group Flow (vph)          231    1147     154     170    1139       39     54       104       0    121        71      17
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2              1        1               2       2                                         2
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                     Prot            Perm
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6                3        8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         13.2    70.5    70.5     16.1    73.4   73.4      6.3      15.6            9.8    19.1    19.1
Effective Green, g (s)        14.2    73.5    73.5     17.1    76.4   76.4      7.3      16.6           10.8    20.1    20.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11    0.57    0.57     0.13    0.59   0.59     0.06      0.13           0.08    0.15    0.15
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0    6.0      4.0       4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     3.0    3.0      3.0       4.0            2.0     2.0     2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             375    2875     876      233   2080     917      193       405            285     288     241
v/s Ratio Prot                0.07    0.23            c0.10   c0.32           c0.02     c0.03          c0.04    0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.03                                              0.01
v/c Ratio                     0.62    0.40    0.18     0.73    0.55   0.04       0.28    0.26           0.42    0.25    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1             55.3    15.9    13.6     54.2    16.3   11.3       58.8    51.1           56.6    48.3    47.0
Progression Factor            1.15    0.78    1.25     0.95    1.12   1.88       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.0     0.4     0.4      8.5     0.9    0.1        0.8     0.5            0.4     0.2     0.0
Delay (s)                     66.6    12.7    17.5     59.9    19.3   21.4       59.6    51.6           57.0    48.5    47.0
Level of Service                 E       B       B        E       B      C          E       D              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                    21.1                     24.4                      53.0                   51.4
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      27.6       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.52
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            61.4%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 4
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Davidon EIR
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                       Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900      1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00   0.97      1.00     1.00   0.97      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    0.99    1.00    1.00     0.97   1.00      1.00     0.99   1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00      1.00     0.85   1.00      0.89
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562    3433      3106
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00     1.00   0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5085   1562     1770    3539    1540    3433      1863    1562    3433      3106
Volume (vph)                   346     829     112       53    806      129     76        46       36    231       115    340
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98      0.98     0.98   0.98      0.98   0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                353     846     114       54    822      132     78        47       37    236       117    347
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      0      43        0      0       79      0         0       34       0      302      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)          353     846      71       54    822       53     78        47        3    236       162      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               3              1        1               3      3                  1       1               3
Turn Type                      Prot          Perm      Prot           Perm    Split             Perm     Split
Protected Phases                  5     2                 1      6               8         8                4        4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)         35.6    80.2    80.2     7.0     51.6   51.6       10.9    10.9   10.9     15.9     15.9
Effective Green, g (s)        36.6    81.2    81.2     8.0     52.6   52.6       11.9    11.9   11.9     16.9     16.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.28    0.62    0.62    0.06     0.40   0.40       0.09    0.09   0.09     0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)             4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          2.0     4.0     4.0     2.0      4.0    4.0        2.0     2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             498    3176     976     109    1432     623        314     171    143      446      404
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.20    0.17            0.03    c0.23              0.02   c0.03           c0.07     0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.05                    0.03                      0.00
v/c Ratio                     0.71    0.27    0.07    0.50     0.57   0.09       0.25    0.27   0.02     0.53     0.40
Uniform Delay, d1             41.9    11.0     9.6    59.0     30.0   23.9       54.9    55.0   53.8     52.8     51.9
Progression Factor            1.65    0.62    0.44    1.00     1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.6     0.2     0.1     1.3      1.7    0.3        0.2     0.3    0.0      0.5      0.2
Delay (s)                     72.8     7.0     4.4    60.3     31.7   24.1       55.0    55.3   53.8     53.4     52.1
Level of Service                 E       A       A       E        C      C          E       E      D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                    24.5                     32.2                      54.8                     52.6
Approach LOS                             C                        C                         D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      34.7       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            73.9%        ICU Level of Service                    D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 5
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Davidon EIR
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd.                                                     Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0            3.0       3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00   0.97       0.95           1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     0.91    1.00    1.00    0.97   1.00       0.99           1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   1.00     0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85   1.00       0.94           1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   3539    1435     1770    3539   1531    3433       3297           2000     3498
Flt Permitted                 0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00   0.95       1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770   3539    1435     1770    3539   1531    3433       3297           1770     3498
Volume (vph)                    87    971      169     238     628     154    205        365     241    168      191      14
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97   0.97       0.97    0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                 90   1001      174     245     647     159    211        376     248    173      197      14
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      0       32       0       0      43      0         87       0      0         5      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           90   1001      142     245     647     116    211        537       0    173      206       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             12              54      54              12     11                  8      8               11
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                             11                       9
Turn Type                     Prot           Perm      Prot          Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                 5      2                 1     6                   3      8               7       4
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)         11.8    48.0    48.0     21.3   57.5    57.5       12.9    25.1           17.1    29.3
Effective Green, g (s)        13.3    50.0    50.0     22.8   59.5    59.5       14.4    26.6           18.6    30.8
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10    0.38    0.38     0.18   0.46    0.46       0.11    0.20           0.14    0.24
Clearance Time (s)             4.5     5.0     5.0      4.5    5.0     5.0        4.5     4.5            4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0     7.0     7.0      3.0    7.0     7.0        3.0     3.0            4.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             181   1361      552      310   1620     701        380     675            286     829
v/s Ratio Prot                0.05   c0.28            c0.14   0.18               0.06   c0.16          c0.09    0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.10                    0.08
v/c Ratio                     0.50    0.74    0.26     0.79   0.40    0.16       0.56    0.79           0.60    0.25
Uniform Delay, d1             55.2    34.3    27.3     51.3   23.4    20.7       54.8    49.1           52.3    40.2
Progression Factor            1.42    0.59    0.60     1.06   1.68    2.45       1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.9     3.1     1.0     11.0    0.6     0.4        1.8     6.4            4.1     0.2
Delay (s)                     80.1    23.4    17.5     65.3   40.0    51.1       56.5    55.5           56.4    40.4
Level of Service                 F       C       B        E      D       D          E       E              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                    26.6                    47.6                       55.8                   47.6
Approach LOS                             C                       D                          E                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      42.0       HCM Level of Service                    D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                   0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            81.8%        ICU Level of Service                    D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                         Page 6
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Davidon EIR
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Ave.                                                  Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                    EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)          1900   1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)          3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0            3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Util. Factor           1.00   0.95     1.00   1.00    0.91     1.00   1.00     0.95           0.91      0.91     1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes             1.00   1.00     0.96   1.00    1.00     0.96   1.00     0.99           1.00      1.00     0.97
Flpb, ped/bikes             1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00           1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                         1.00   1.00     0.85   1.00    1.00     0.85   1.00     0.97           1.00       1.00    0.85
Flt Protected               0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00           0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)           1770   3539    1521    1770    5085    1519    1770     3388           2000      3263    1534
Flt Permitted               0.95   1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95     1.00           0.95      0.96     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)           1770   3539    1521    1770    5085    1519    1770     3388           1610      3263    1534
Volume (vph)                 232   1097       22     43     908      369     17       87      26    551         77     153
Peak-hour factor, PHF       0.88   0.88     0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88   0.88     0.88    0.88   0.88      0.88     0.88
Adj. Flow (vph)              264   1247       25     49    1032      419     19       99      30    626         88     174
RTOR Reduction (vph)           0      0        8      0       0      272      0       25       0      0          0     137
Lane Group Flow (vph)        264   1247       17     49    1032      147     19      104       0    313       401       37
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)           18              20     20               18     14               16     16                 14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                            3                       8                       1                         1
Turn Type                   Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Split                   Split            Perm
Protected Phases               5      2                1       6               8       8               4        4
Permitted Phases                               2                       6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)       23.2    62.0    62.0     5.2   43.5     43.5    17.4     17.4           25.9     25.9    25.9
Effective Green, g (s)      25.2    64.0    64.0     6.7   45.5     45.5    19.4     19.4           27.9     27.9    27.9
Actuated g/C Ratio          0.19    0.49    0.49    0.05   0.35     0.35    0.15     0.15           0.21     0.21    0.21
Clearance Time (s)           5.0     5.0     5.0     4.5    5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)        5.0     5.0     5.0     3.0    5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           343   1742      749      91   1780      532     264      506            429      700     329
v/s Ratio Prot             c0.15   c0.35            0.03   0.20             0.01    c0.03          c0.16     0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.01                    0.10                                             0.02
v/c Ratio                   0.77    0.72    0.02    0.54    0.58    0.28    0.07     0.21           0.73    0.87dl   0.11
Uniform Delay, d1           49.7    25.9    16.9    60.1    34.5    30.4    47.6     48.5           47.5      45.7   41.1
Progression Factor          0.81    0.74    0.33    1.13    0.89    1.17    1.00     1.00           1.00      1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       10.8     2.3     0.1     5.2     1.2     1.1     0.2      0.4            7.5       1.8    0.3
Delay (s)                   50.9    21.4     5.6    73.3    31.9    36.6    47.8     49.0           55.0      47.5   41.4
Level of Service               D       C       A       E       C       D       D        D              E         D      D
Approach Delay (s)                  26.2                    34.6                     48.8                     49.0
Approach LOS                           C                       C                        D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  35.1          HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.65
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 130.0          Sum of lost time (s)                9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization        69.8%           ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                        15
dl Defacto Left Lane. Recode with 1 though lane as a left lane.
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                             11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                      Page 7
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande                                                         Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)             3.0    3.0               3.0    3.0             3.0       3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    0.91             1.00    0.91            1.00      1.00           1.00      1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00           1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00            1.00      0.86            1.00     0.90
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.95      1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    5061             1770    5068           1767       1605           1770     1652
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00            0.74      1.00            0.40     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    5061             1770    5068           1372       1605            742     1652
Volume (vph)                     18   1610       44     121    1262      24      35        10     114      42        9     20
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.97    0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97      0.97    0.97   0.97     0.97    0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                  19   1660       45     125    1301      25      36        10     118      43        9     21
RTOR Reduction (vph)              0      1        0        0      1       0       0       105       0       0       19      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)            19   1704        0     125    1325       0      36        23       0      43       11      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               4               4        4              4       1                                         1
Turn Type                      Prot                     Prot                  Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                  5      2                 1      6                         8                       4
Permitted Phases                                                                     8                      4
Actuated Green, G (s)          3.7     87.3             15.4    99.0              12.8   12.8            12.8    12.8
Effective Green, g (s)         5.2     89.8             16.9   101.5              14.3   14.3            14.3    14.3
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.04     0.69             0.13    0.78              0.11   0.11            0.11    0.11
Clearance Time (s)             4.5      5.5              4.5     5.5               4.5    4.5             4.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          4.0      6.0              4.0     6.0               3.0    3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              71    3496               230    3957               151    177              82     182
v/s Ratio Prot                0.01    c0.34            c0.07    0.26                     0.01                    0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                    0.03                  c0.06
v/c Ratio                     0.27     0.49             0.54    0.33              0.24   0.13            0.52    0.06
Uniform Delay, d1             60.6      9.4             52.9     4.2              52.9   52.2            54.6    51.8
Progression Factor            0.90     0.80             0.87    1.58              1.00   1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.1      0.4              2.4     0.2               0.8    0.3             5.9     0.1
Delay (s)                     56.6      7.9             48.7     6.9              53.7   52.6            60.6    52.0
Level of Service                 E        A                D       A                 D      D               E       D
Approach Delay (s)                      8.4                     10.5                     52.8                    57.0
Approach LOS                              A                        B                        D                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       12.5       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.50
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      130.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             63.0%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 8
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Davidon EIR
16: Country Hills Dr. & Hillcrest Ave                                                    Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900       1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0             3.0       3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       0.95           1.00      0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    0.98           1.00       1.00           1.00      0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00           1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.91             1.00    0.91           1.00       0.99            1.00     0.98
Flt Protected                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770    1690             1770    1668           1770       3482           1770     3457
Flt Permitted                 0.95    1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95       1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1770    1690             1770    1668           1770       3482           1770     3457
Volume (vph)                    42      51       82      34      50      75     73        514      49    140       543     63
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 46      55       89      37      54      82      79       559      53     152      590     68
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      37        0       0      33       0       0         3       0       0        3      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           46     107        0      37     103       0     79        609       0    152       655      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             10                                       10      20                 7       7              20
Turn Type                     Split                    Split                   Prot                      Prot
Protected Phases                 4       4                8       8               5         2               1       6
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)         12.7     12.7            12.5     12.5            9.2       65.5           16.4    72.7
Effective Green, g (s)        13.2     13.2            13.0     13.0            9.7       67.0           16.9    74.2
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.11     0.11            0.11     0.11           0.08       0.55           0.14    0.61
Clearance Time (s)             3.5      3.5             3.5      3.5            3.5        4.5            3.5     4.5
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0            3.0        5.0            3.0     5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             191      183             188      178            141      1911             245    2101
v/s Ratio Prot                0.03    c0.06            0.02    c0.06          c0.04      c0.17          c0.09    0.19
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                     0.24     0.59            0.20     0.58              0.56    0.32           0.62    0.31
Uniform Delay, d1             49.9     51.9            49.8     51.9              54.1    15.1           49.6    11.6
Progression Factor            1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.7      4.7             0.5      4.5               5.0     0.4            4.8     0.4
Delay (s)                     50.5     56.6            50.3     56.4              59.2    15.5           54.4    12.0
Level of Service                 D        E               D        E                 E       B              D       B
Approach Delay (s)                     55.1                     55.1                      20.5                   19.9
Approach LOS                              E                        E                         C                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                       27.0       HCM Level of Service                    C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                    0.45
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                      122.1       Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization             55.6%        ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                             15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                                 11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                          Page 9
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Davidon EIR
18: Laurel Rd. & Hillcrest Ave                                                         Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                      EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900   1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900       1900   1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            3.0    3.0              3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Util. Factor             1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       0.95   1.00    1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes               1.00   0.99             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   0.98    1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes               1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00   0.89             1.00   1.00   0.85    1.00       1.00   0.85    1.00      0.99
Flt Protected                 0.95   1.00             0.95   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770   1634            1768    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550    1770     3497
Flt Permitted                 0.75   1.00             0.74   1.00   1.00    0.95       1.00   1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)             1400   1634            1374    1863   1583    1770       3539   1550    1770     3497
Volume (vph)                    17      7      22       35      9    133       27       565     39     162       677     50
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.98   0.98    0.98     0.98   0.98   0.98    0.98       0.98   0.98    0.98     0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                 17      7      22       36      9    136       28       577     40     165       691     51
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0     20       0        0      0    123        0         0      0        0        2      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           17      9       0       36      9     13       28       577     40     165       740      0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             1        1                      2                2        2               2
Turn Type                    Perm                    Perm           Perm     Prot             Free     Prot
Protected Phases                       4                       8                5         2               1       6
Permitted Phases                 4                       8              8                      Free
Actuated Green, G (s)          8.4    8.4              8.4    8.4     8.4        3.4   62.6   100.0    14.5     73.7
Effective Green, g (s)         9.9    9.9              9.9    9.9     9.9        4.4   65.6   100.0    15.5     76.7
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.10   0.10             0.10   0.10    0.10       0.04   0.66    1.00    0.16     0.77
Clearance Time (s)             4.5    4.5              4.5    4.5     4.5        4.0    6.0             4.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0    3.0              3.5    3.5     3.5        3.0    5.0             3.0      5.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)             139    162              136    184     157         78   2322   1550      274    2682
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.01                    0.00               0.02   0.16           c0.09    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                0.01                   c0.03           0.01                      0.03
v/c Ratio                     0.12   0.06             0.26   0.05    0.09       0.36   0.25    0.03    0.60     0.28
Uniform Delay, d1             41.1   40.8             41.7   40.8    40.9       46.4    7.1     0.0    39.4      3.4
Progression Factor            1.00   1.00             1.00   1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.22     0.16
Incremental Delay, d2          0.4    0.1              1.2    0.1     0.3        2.8    0.3     0.0     3.4      0.2
Delay (s)                     41.5   41.0             42.9   40.9    41.2       49.2    7.3     0.0    51.6      0.8
Level of Service                 D      D                D      D       D          D      A       A       D        A
Approach Delay (s)                   41.2                    41.5                       8.7                     10.0
Approach LOS                            D                       D                         A                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     13.6       HCM Level of Service                    B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.33
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   6.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           48.4%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                               11/6/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                      Page 10
Cumulative No Project
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
1: Laurel Road & Canada Valley                                                     2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0               4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.95              1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00
Frt                        0.99              1.00    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              1.00              0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3489              1770    3539     1770    1583
Flt Permitted              1.00              0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3489              1770    3539     1770    1583
Volume (vph)               953      100      238     649      120     229
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            953      100      238     649      120     229
RTOR Reduction (vph)          8        0        0       0        0    178
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1045         0     238     649      120       51
Turn Type                                    Prot                    Perm
Protected Phases              4                 3      8        2
Permitted Phases                                                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     39.8              18.2     62.0 20.0       20.0
Effective Green, g (s)    39.8              18.2     62.0 20.0       20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.44              0.20     0.69 0.22       0.22
Clearance Time (s)         4.0               4.0      4.0   4.0       4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0               3.0      3.0   3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       1543               358     2438   393       352
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.30             c0.13     0.18 c0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.03
v/c Ratio                  0.68             0.66    0.27     0.31    0.14
Uniform Delay, d1          20.0             33.1     5.3     29.2    28.1
Progression Factor         1.00             0.93    0.53     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.4              4.4     0.3      2.0     0.9
Delay (s)                  22.4             35.1     3.1     31.2    29.0
Level of Service              C                D       A        C       C
Approach Delay (s)         22.4                     11.7     29.8
Approach LOS                  C                        B        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                    19.4          HCM Level of Service          B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                 0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    90.0       Sum of lost time (s)           12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          59.4%        ICU Level of Service              B
Analysis Period (min)                          15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                              Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
2: Laurel Road & Country Hills Drive                                             2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT        EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900       1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95               1.00    0.95           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.94               1.00    0.99           1.00    0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00               0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3336               1770    3515           1770    1607           1770    1676
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00               0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3336               1770    3515           1770    1607           1770    1676
Volume (vph)              40   679     420        62    633      30    160       20   217       80      30     60
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           40   679     420        62    633      30    160       20   217       80      30     60
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0      0       0        0       3      0       0       0      0       0      52      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     40 1099         0       62    660       0    160     237       0      80      38      0
Turn Type               Prot                    Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5      2                1       6              3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)    4.4 44.3               7.2 47.1               11.0 17.7              4.8    11.5
Effective Green, g (s)   4.4 44.3               7.2 47.1               11.0 17.7              4.8    11.5
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.05 0.49              0.08 0.52               0.12 0.20             0.05    0.13
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0             4.0   4.0                4.0  4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0    3.0             3.0   3.0                3.0  3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        87 1642              142 1840                 216  316               94    214
v/s Ratio Prot          0.02 c0.33             0.04 c0.19             c0.09 c0.15            0.05    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio               0.46 0.67              0.44     0.36          0.74    0.75           0.85    0.18
Uniform Delay, d1       41.6 17.3              39.5     12.6          38.1    34.1           42.2    35.0
Progression Factor      0.87 1.84              0.90     0.92          1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    3.1    1.8             2.1      0.5          12.8     9.6           48.3     0.4
Delay (s)               39.3 33.5              37.7     12.1          50.9    43.7           90.6    35.4
Level of Service           D     C                D        B             D       D              F       D
Approach Delay (s)            33.7                      14.3                  46.6                   61.4
Approach LOS                     C                         B                     D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay               31.9         HCM Level of Service               C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio            0.63
Actuated Cycle Length (s)               90.0         Sum of lost time (s)              8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization     67.9%          ICU Level of Service               C
Analysis Period (min)                     15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                              Page 2
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
3: Laurel Road & SB SR4 Bypass                                                   2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT        EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900       1900    1900     1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)             4.0                       4.0                                 4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.95                       0.95                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Frt                           0.99                       1.00                                1.00    1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00                       1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3514                       3539                                1681    1681   1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00                       1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3514                       3539                                1681    1681   1583
Volume (vph)               0   929       46       0      420       0      0      0      0    840        0   305
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0   929       46       0      420       0      0      0      0    840        0   305
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0      0       0       0         0      0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0  975         0       0      420       0      0      0      0    420     420     305
Turn Type                                                                                   Perm         custom
Protected Phases                  2                         6                                          4        4
Permitted Phases                                                                                4               4
Actuated Green, G (s)         53.4                       53.4                                28.6   28.6 28.6
Effective Green, g (s)        53.4                       53.4                                28.6   28.6 28.6
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.59                       0.59                                0.32   0.32 0.32
Clearance Time (s)              4.0                       4.0                                 4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0                       3.0                                 3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           2085                       2100                                 534    534     503
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.28                       0.12                                               0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                              c0.25   0.25
v/c Ratio                     0.47                       0.20                                0.79   0.79 0.61
Uniform Delay, d1             10.3                        8.4                                27.9   27.9 25.9
Progression Factor            0.43                       0.09                                1.00   1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2           0.6                       0.2                                 7.5    7.5      2.1
Delay (s)                       5.0                       1.0                                35.4   35.4 28.0
Level of Service                  A                         A                                   D      D       C
Approach Delay (s)              5.0                       1.0                  0.0                  33.5
Approach LOS                      A                         A                    A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay               17.2          HCM Level of Service             B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio            0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)               90.0          Sum of lost time (s)            8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization     77.6%           ICU Level of Service             D
Analysis Period (min)                     15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 3
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                    Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
4: Laurel Road & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                               2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900     1900    1900 1900        1900   1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0                       4.0     4.0              4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95                       0.95    1.00             1.00   1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00                       1.00    0.85             1.00   0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00                       1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3539                       3539    1583             1770   1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00                       1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3539                       3539    1583             1770   1583
Volume (vph)            155 1615         0       0      565     620     5           0   100       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         155 1615         0       0      565     620     5           0   100       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0       0         0       0    0           0      0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   155 1615         0       0      565     620     0           5   100       0      0      0
Turn Type               Prot                                   Perm Perm             custom
Protected Phases           5     2                         6                       8       8
Permitted Phases                                                   6        8              8
Actuated Green, G (s)   18.0 71.2                       49.2    49.2            10.8 10.8
Effective Green, g (s)  18.0 71.2                       49.2    49.2            10.8 10.8
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.20 0.79                       0.55    0.55            0.12 0.12
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0                       4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0                       3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      354 2800                       1935     865             212     190
v/s Ratio Prot          0.09 c0.46                      0.16                           c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                                 c0.39            0.00
v/c Ratio               0.44 0.58                       0.29    0.72            0.02 0.53
Uniform Delay, d1       31.6   3.6                      11.0    15.2            34.9 37.2
Progression Factor      1.03 0.92                       0.07    0.22            1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    0.8   0.8                       0.3     4.1             0.0     2.6
Delay (s)               33.3   4.1                       1.1     7.4            35.0 39.8
Level of Service           C     A                         A       A               C       D
Approach Delay (s)             6.7                       4.4                    39.6                   0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A                       D                     A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay               6.9          HCM Level of Service                 A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)              90.0          Sum of lost time (s)                8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    60.3%           ICU Level of Service                  B
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                              Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                Page 4
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
5: Laurel Road & Slatten Ranch Road                                                     2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         0.91    1.00     1.00     0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00     0.96           1.00    0.94           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         5085    1583     1770     4897           3433    3332           1770    3443
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         5085    1583     1770     4897           3433    3332           1770    3443
Volume (vph)            160          925     630      260      975    320     170     250    160     130     180      40
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         160          925     630      260      975    320     170     250    160     130     180      40
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0        0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   160          925     630      260     1295       0    170     410       0    130     220       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                    Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5           2                 1       6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                2
Actuated Green, G (s)   15.0         37.5    37.5     14.7     37.2          11.0 14.8                7.0   10.8
Effective Green, g (s)  15.0         37.5    37.5     14.7     37.2          11.0 14.8                7.0   10.8
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.17         0.42    0.42     0.16     0.41          0.12 0.16               0.08   0.12
Clearance Time (s)       4.0          4.0     4.0       4.0     4.0           4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0          3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0           3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      295         2119     660       289    2024           420   548               138    413
v/s Ratio Prot          0.09         0.18            c0.15     0.26          0.05 c0.12             c0.07   0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.40
v/c Ratio               0.54        0.44     0.95     0.90    0.64           0.40    0.75            0.94   0.53
Uniform Delay, d1       34.4        18.7     25.4     36.9    21.1           36.5    35.8            41.3   37.2
Progression Factor      0.84        0.74     0.74     0.69    0.58           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.7         0.5     22.6     25.2     1.3            0.6     5.5            58.8    1.3
Delay (s)               30.6        14.5     41.6     50.8    13.6           37.1    41.4           100.1   38.6
Level of Service           C           B        D        D       B              D       D               F      D
Approach Delay (s)                  25.9                      19.8                   40.1                   61.4
Approach LOS                           C                         B                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     28.6         HCM Level of Service                C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0         Sum of lost time (s)              16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           69.7%          ICU Level of Service                C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 5
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                      Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
6: Laurel Road & Live Oak Avenue                                                    2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR       SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     0.91             1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.99             1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     5034             1770    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     5034             1770    1583
Volume (vph)               290       925     1245      90        60    310
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            290       925     1245      90        60    310
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0        9      0         0    218
Lane Group Flow (vph)      290       925     1326       0        60      92
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm
Protected Phases              7        4        8                 6
Permitted Phases                                                          6
Actuated Green, G (s)     12.6       55.2 38.6                 26.8    26.8
Effective Green, g (s)    12.6       55.2 38.6                 26.8    26.8
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.14       0.61 0.43                 0.30    0.30
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0   4.0                 4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0   3.0                 3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         481      3119 2159                  527     471
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.08       0.18 c0.26                0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.06
v/c Ratio                  0.60     0.30     0.61              0.11    0.20
Uniform Delay, d1          36.4      8.2     19.9              23.0    23.6
Progression Factor         0.90     1.41     0.62              1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.8      0.0      0.4               0.4     0.9
Delay (s)                  34.7     11.6     12.7              23.4    24.5
Level of Service              C        B        B                 C       C
Approach Delay (s)                  17.1     12.7              24.3
Approach LOS                           B        B                 C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     16.0          HCM Level of Service          B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0          Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.9%           ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                               Page 6
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
7: Laurel Road & Empire Avenue                                                           2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95           1.00    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.99           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770     3516           1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770     3516           1770    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               285       650       50       70    850     140     140      220      10      40    310     345
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            285       650       50       70    850     140     140      220      10      40    310     345
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      28        0       0      85       0        4      0       0       0    237
Lane Group Flow (vph)      285       650       22       70    850       55    140      226       0      40    310     108
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                    Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              7        4                 3       8               5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8                                               6
Actuated Green, G (s)     12.0       40.4    40.4     7.1 35.5       35.5     11.2    22.9            3.6 15.3       15.3
Effective Green, g (s)    12.0       40.4    40.4     7.1 35.5       35.5     11.2    22.9            3.6 15.3       15.3
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.13       0.45    0.45    0.08 0.39       0.39     0.12    0.25           0.04 0.17       0.17
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0       4.0    4.0            4.0   4.0       4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0       3.0    3.0            3.0   3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         458      1589     711     140 1396        624       220    895              71  602       269
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.08       0.18            0.04 c0.24              c0.08    0.06           0.02 c0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                    0.03                                            0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.62     0.41     0.03    0.50     0.61   0.09     0.64    0.25           0.56    0.51    0.40
Uniform Delay, d1          36.9     16.7     13.9    39.7     21.7   17.1     37.5    26.7           42.4    34.0    33.3
Progression Factor         1.19     0.71     1.62    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.6      0.8      0.1     2.8      2.0    0.3      5.9     0.1            9.8     0.7     1.0
Delay (s)                  46.6     12.6     22.6    42.5     23.7   17.4     43.4    26.9           52.3    34.7    34.3
Level of Service              D        B        C       D        C      B        D       C              D       C       C
Approach Delay (s)                  22.9                      24.1                    33.1                   35.5
Approach LOS                           C                         C                       C                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     27.4         HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0         Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           62.6%          ICU Level of Service                  B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                    Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                      Page 7
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       0.97 0.91 1.00        0.97    0.91    1.00    0.97    0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85        1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.87    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      3433 5085 1583        3433    5085    1583    3433    1534    1504    1770    1863    1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      3433 5085 1583        3433    5085    1583    3433    1534    1504    1770    1863    1583
Volume (vph)              42   950     20     260    1460     249       50      10    160     328       10      26
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           42   950     20     260    1460     249       50      10    160     328       10      26
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0      0    11        0       0    117        0      74      74       0       0      21
Lane Group Flow (vph)     42  950       9     260    1460     132       50      16       6    328       10       5
Turn Type               Prot        Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases           5      2              1       6               3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                        2                       6                       8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)    2.4 46.9 46.9       14.0 58.5       58.5    10.7   8.9       8.9     24.2   22.4    22.4
Effective Green, g (s)   2.4 46.9 46.9       14.0 58.5       58.5    10.7   8.9       8.9     24.2   22.4    22.4
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.02 0.43 0.43       0.13 0.53       0.53    0.10 0.08       0.08     0.22   0.20    0.20
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0   4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0    3.0   3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        75 2168    675     437 2704        842     334   124       122      389    379     322
v/s Ratio Prot          0.01 c0.19           0.08 c0.29              0.01 c0.01              c0.19   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.01                    0.08                    0.00                    0.00
v/c Ratio               0.56 0.44 0.01       0.59     0.54   0.16    0.15    0.13    0.05     0.84   0.03    0.02
Uniform Delay, d1       53.3 22.3 18.2       45.3     16.9   13.2    45.5    47.0    46.7     41.1   35.1    35.0
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00       0.64     0.89   1.10    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    9.2    0.6   0.0     1.9      0.7    0.3     0.2     0.5     0.2     15.2    0.0     0.0
Delay (s)               62.5 22.9 18.2       30.9     15.7   14.8    45.7    47.5    46.8     56.3   35.1    35.0
Level of Service           E     C      B       C        B      B       D       D       D        E      D       D
Approach Delay (s)            24.5                    17.6                   46.8                    54.2
Approach LOS                     C                       B                      D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             25.1         HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0         Sum of lost time (s)              12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   66.4%          ICU Level of Service                C
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                              Page 8
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                       Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
9: Lone Tree Way & SB SR4 Bypass                                                      2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0                                 4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00     0.97    0.91                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00                                1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   5085    1583     3433    5085                                1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   5085    1583     3433    5085                                1681     1681    1583
Volume (vph)               0        1156     282      160    1769       0      0      0      0    723         0    200
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0        1156     282      160    1769       0      0      0      0    723         0    200
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0       0      0      0      0      0       0        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0        1156     282      160    1769       0      0      0      0    362      361      200
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                                        Split           Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1       6                                   4       4
Permitted Phases                                2                                                                     4
Actuated Green, G (s)                53.3    53.3    16.0 73.3                                    28.7    28.7     28.7
Effective Green, g (s)               53.3    53.3    16.0 73.3                                    28.7    28.7     28.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.48    0.48    0.15 0.67                                    0.26    0.26     0.26
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0                                    4.0     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  2464     767     499 3388                                     439     439      413
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.23            0.05 c0.35                                  c0.22    0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.18                                                                  0.13
v/c Ratio                           0.47     0.37    0.32     0.52                                0.82    0.82     0.48
Uniform Delay, d1                   18.9     17.8    42.1      9.4                                38.3    38.3     34.4
Progression Factor                  1.11     1.06    1.11     0.93                                1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6      1.2     0.3      0.5                                11.9    11.8      0.9
Delay (s)                           21.6     20.1    47.0      9.2                                50.2    50.0     35.3
Level of Service                       C        C       D        A                                   D       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                  21.3                      12.4                  0.0                   46.9
Approach LOS                           C                         B                    A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     22.8         HCM Level of Service             C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)            8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           60.9%          ICU Level of Service              B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 9
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
10: Lone Tree Way & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                                2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900 1900      1900    1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0       4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00     0.97    0.91    1.00 0.97      1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   5085    1583     3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   5085    1583     3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Volume (vph)               0        1580     300        70   1655     714  274         10    250       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0        1580     300        70   1655     714  274         10    250       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0       0       0    0         0       0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0        1580     300        70   1655     714  274         10    250       0      0      0
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot           Perm Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1       6                     8
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6      8               8
Actuated Green, G (s)                70.4     70.4    5.6     80.0    80.0   22.0   22.0     22.0
Effective Green, g (s)               70.4     70.4    5.6     80.0    80.0   22.0   22.0     22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.64     0.64   0.05     0.73    0.73   0.20   0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  3254     1013    175     3698    1151    687    373      317
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.31            0.02     0.33                  0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.19                    c0.45   0.08           c0.16
v/c Ratio                           0.49     0.30    0.40     0.45    0.62   0.40   0.03     0.79
Uniform Delay, d1                   10.3      8.8    50.6      6.1     7.5   38.3   35.4     41.8
Progression Factor                  0.15     0.17    1.05     0.68    0.98   1.00   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5      0.7     0.9      0.2     1.5    0.4    0.0     12.2
Delay (s)                            2.0      2.2    54.0      4.4     8.8   38.6   35.4     54.0
Level of Service                       A        A       D        A       A      D      D        D
Approach Delay (s)                   2.1                       7.1                  45.8                    0.0
Approach LOS                           A                         A                     D                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      9.4         HCM Level of Service                A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)               8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           54.2%          ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                    Page 10
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
11: Lone Tree Way & Slatten Ranch Road                                                 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900 1900 1900         1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0   4.0  4.0                 4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     1.00 1.00 0.91                 0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.85 1.00 1.00                 1.00    0.99           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00 0.95 1.00                 0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     1583 1770 5063                 3433    3509           3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00 0.95 1.00                 0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     1583 1770 5063                 3433    3509           3433    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               460      1110      240    70 1690           50    500     500      30      10    150     280
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00 1.00 1.00         1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            460      1110      240    70 1690           50    500     500      30      10    150     280
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       79     0    3           0       0       4      0       0       0    167
Lane Group Flow (vph)      460      1110      161    70 1737            0    500     526       0      10    150     113
Turn Type                  Prot             pm+ov   Prot                     Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2         3     1    6                   3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                                    4
Actuated Green, G (s)     16.8       55.0     74.0   4.8 43.0                19.0 33.4              0.8    15.2    15.2
Effective Green, g (s)    16.8       55.0     74.0   4.8 43.0                19.0 33.4              0.8    15.2    15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.15       0.50     0.67 0.04 0.39                 0.17 0.30             0.01    0.14    0.14
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0      4.0   4.0  4.0                 4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0      3.0   3.0  3.0                 3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         524      2543     1065    77 1979                 593 1065                25    489     219
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.13       0.22     0.03 0.04 c0.34               c0.15 c0.15            0.00    0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.08                                                                 0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.88     0.44      0.15 0.91 0.88                0.84    0.49           0.40    0.31    0.52
Uniform Delay, d1          45.6     17.6       6.6 52.4 31.1                44.1    31.4           54.4    42.7    44.0
Progression Factor         1.26     1.42      4.04 1.21 1.46                1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      13.8      0.5       0.1 62.2   4.8               10.6     0.4           10.2     0.4     2.0
Delay (s)                  71.2     25.5      26.6 125.8 50.2               54.6    31.7           64.5    43.0    46.0
Level of Service              E        C         C     F    D                  D       C              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  37.2                 53.1                       42.8                   45.4
Approach LOS                           D                    D                          D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     44.7         HCM Level of Service               D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)             12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           78.6%          ICU Level of Service               D
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 11
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                       2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91    1.00     1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    1.00    1.00    0.97    0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.92
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3260
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3260
Volume (vph)               220       680     260        30   1200     340     510     200       20      90      90   100
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            220       680     260        30   1200     340     510     200       20      90      90   100
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0    121         0       0    159        0       0      16       0      92      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      220       680     139        30   1200     181     510     200        4      90      98      0
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1       6               3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6                       8
Actuated Green, G (s)     22.5       59.0    59.0     4.3 40.8       40.8     22.2 19.4      19.4    11.3     8.5
Effective Green, g (s)    22.5       59.0    59.0     4.3 40.8       40.8     22.2 19.4      19.4    11.3     8.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.20       0.54    0.54    0.04 0.37       0.37     0.20 0.18      0.18    0.10    0.08
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0       4.0   4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0       3.0   3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         362      2727     849       69 1886       587       693   329     279     353     252
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.12       0.13            0.02 c0.24              c0.15 c0.11             0.03    0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.09                    0.11                    0.00
v/c Ratio                  0.61     0.25     0.16    0.43     0.64   0.31     0.74   0.61    0.01    0.25    0.39
Uniform Delay, d1          39.7     13.6     13.0    51.7     28.5   24.6     41.2   41.8    37.4    45.5    48.3
Progression Factor         1.37     1.52     7.00    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.7      0.2      0.4     4.3      1.7    1.4      4.1    3.2     0.0     0.4     1.0
Delay (s)                  57.0     21.0     91.1    56.0     30.1   25.9     45.2   45.0    37.4    45.9    49.3
Level of Service              E        C        F       E        C      C        D      D       D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  43.6                      29.7                   44.9                    48.2
Approach LOS                           D                         C                      D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     38.4         HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)              16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           69.0%          ICU Level of Service                C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                    Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 12
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd                                                     2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.97             1.00    0.97           1.00    0.96           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      4943             1770    4922           3433    3381           1770    3429
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      4943             1770    4922           3433    3381           1770    3429
Volume (vph)               110       700     160      200    1320    360     450     520    220     340     380    100
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            110       700     160      200    1320    360     450     520    220     340     380    100
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        33       0        0      44      0       0      42      0       0      21      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      110       827        0     200    1636       0    450     698       0    340     459       0
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1       6              3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)       7.0      32.4             15.1 40.5             18.5 24.0               22.5 28.0
Effective Green, g (s)      7.0      32.4             15.1 40.5             18.5 24.0               22.5 28.0
Actuated g/C Ratio         0.06      0.29             0.14 0.37             0.17 0.22               0.20 0.25
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0              4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0              3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         113      1456              243 1812              577   738               362   873
v/s Ratio Prot             0.06      0.17            c0.11 c0.33            0.13 c0.21             c0.19 c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                 0.97      0.57             0.82     0.90          0.78    0.95           0.94    0.53
Uniform Delay, d1         51.4      32.9             46.2     32.9          43.8    42.4           43.1    35.3
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00          1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     75.7       1.6             19.7      7.8           6.6    20.7           31.6     0.6
Delay (s)                127.2      34.5             65.8     40.7          50.4    63.1           74.7    35.9
Level of Service             F         C                E        D             D       E              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                  45.0                      43.4                  58.3                   52.0
Approach LOS                           D                         D                     E                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     48.8         HCM Level of Service               D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.92
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)             16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           93.2%          ICU Level of Service                F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 13
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Avenue                                                     2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00     0.95           0.91     0.91    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.92           1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5057             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           1610     3256    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5057             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           1610     3256    1583
Volume (vph)               288       792       30       40   1256     400       80       70     80    380        40    464
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            288       792       30       40   1256     400       80       70     80    380        40    464
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         2       0        0       0    206        0       73      0       0        0    385
Lane Group Flow (vph)      288       820        0       40   1256     194       80       77      0    190      230       79
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1       6               8       8               4       4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     15.0       67.6             5.6 58.2       58.2     10.3    10.3            20.5    20.5    20.5
Effective Green, g (s)    15.0       67.6             5.6 58.2       58.2     10.3    10.3            20.5    20.5    20.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.12       0.56            0.05 0.49       0.49     0.09    0.09            0.17    0.17    0.17
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0             4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0             3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         221      2849               83 2466       768      152     279             275     556     270
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.16       0.16            0.02 c0.25              c0.05    0.02           c0.12    0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.12                                             0.05
v/c Ratio                 1.30      0.29             0.48     0.51   0.25     0.53    0.28            0.69    0.41    0.29
Uniform Delay, d1         52.5      13.7             55.8     21.1   18.1     52.5    51.4            46.8    44.4    43.4
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    165.3       0.3              4.4      0.8    0.8      3.3     0.5             7.3     0.5     0.6
Delay (s)                217.8      13.9             60.1     21.9   18.9     55.8    51.9            54.1    44.9    44.0
Level of Service             F         B                E        C      B        E       D               D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  66.8                      22.1                    53.2                    46.4
Approach LOS                           E                         C                       D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     42.1         HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0         Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           68.6%          ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                      Page 14
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                       Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande Drive                                                2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900 1900     1900    1900 1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         0.91    1.00     1.00    0.91    1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00     1.00    0.85 1.00     0.89
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         5085    1583     1770    5085    1583 1770     1863    1583 1770     1653
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.70     1.00    1.00 0.74     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         5085    1583     1770    5085    1583 1313     1863    1583 1386     1653
Volume (vph)            110          892     220      170    1316     140  300        20    130    70       20     60
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         110          892     220      170    1316     140  300        20    130    70       20     60
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0    104         0       0      64    0        0      99    0       46      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   110          892     116      170    1316       76 300        20      31   70       34      0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot           Perm Perm             Perm Perm
Protected Phases           7           4                 3       8                    2                     6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8      2              2      6
Actuated Green, G (s)   11.9         57.8    57.8     14.2 60.1      60.1   26.0   26.0    26.0   26.0   26.0
Effective Green, g (s)  11.9         57.8    57.8     14.2 60.1      60.1   26.0   26.0    26.0   26.0   26.0
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.11         0.53    0.53     0.13 0.55      0.55   0.24   0.24    0.24   0.24   0.24
Clearance Time (s)       4.0          4.0     4.0       4.0  4.0      4.0    4.0    4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0          3.0     3.0       3.0  3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      191         2672     832       228 2778      865    310    440     374    328    391
v/s Ratio Prot          0.06         0.18            c0.10 c0.26                   0.01                  0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.07                    0.05 c0.23            0.02   0.05
v/c Ratio               0.58        0.33     0.14    0.75     0.47   0.09 0.97     0.05    0.08   0.21   0.09
Uniform Delay, d1       46.7        15.0     13.4    46.2     15.3   11.9 41.6     32.4    32.7   33.8   32.7
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.2         0.3      0.3    12.4      0.6    0.2 41.9      0.0     0.1    0.3    0.1
Delay (s)               50.8        15.4     13.7    58.6     15.9   12.1 83.5     32.5    32.8   34.1   32.8
Level of Service           D           B        B       E        B      B     F       C       C      C      C
Approach Delay (s)                  18.3                      20.0                 66.6                  33.4
Approach LOS                           B                         B                    E                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     26.0         HCM Level of Service              C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0         Sum of lost time (s)             8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           64.8%          ICU Level of Service              C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                 Page 15
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
16: Country Hills Drive & Hillcrest Avenue                                             2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    0.92           1.00    0.97           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1723           1770    3446           1770    3518
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1723           1770    3446           1770    3518
Volume (vph)              70           40      50     110       60     60    100     708    150       80    734      30
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           70           40      50     110       60     60    100     708    150       80    734      30
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0      46        0      50      0       0      16      0       0       3      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     70           40       4     110       70      0    100     842       0      80    761       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7           4                 3       8              5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)    5.6         5.8      5.8       8.1   8.3             7.9 42.9              5.4     40.4
Effective Green, g (s)   5.6         5.8      5.8       8.1   8.3             7.9 42.9              5.4     40.4
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07        0.07     0.07     0.10 0.11              0.10 0.55             0.07     0.52
Clearance Time (s)       4.0         4.0      4.0       4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0             4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0         3.0      3.0       3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      127         138      117       183   183             179 1890              122     1817
v/s Ratio Prot          0.04        0.02             c0.06 c0.04            c0.06 c0.24            0.05     0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.00
v/c Ratio               0.55        0.29     0.03     0.60    0.38          0.56    0.45           0.66    0.42
Uniform Delay, d1       35.1        34.3     33.6     33.5    32.6          33.5    10.5           35.5    11.7
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00          1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    5.1         1.2      0.1      5.5     1.3           3.7     0.8           12.0     0.7
Delay (s)               40.2        35.4     33.7     39.0    33.9          37.2    11.3           47.5    12.4
Level of Service           D           D        C        D       C             D       B              D       B
Approach Delay (s)                  37.0                      36.3                  14.0                   15.7
Approach LOS                           D                         D                     B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     18.7         HCM Level of Service               B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.43
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     78.2         Sum of lost time (s)              8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.5%          ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 16
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                       Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
18: Laurel Road & Hillcrest Avenue                                                    2025 No Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900 1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00     0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.92             1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00     0.96           1.00    0.98
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1709             1770    1863    1583 1770     3388           1770    3474
Flt Permitted              0.69      1.00             0.63    1.00    1.00 0.24     1.00           0.19    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1290      1709             1178    1863    1583  449     3388            357    3474
Volume (vph)               170         90    110      254     100     195    90     900    358     315     860    120
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            170         90    110      254     100     195    90     900    358     315     860    120
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        45       0        0       0      38    0       85      0       0      21      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      170       155        0     254     100     157    90    1173       0    315     959       0
Turn Type                 Perm                       Perm            Perm Perm                    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                         8                    2                      6
Permitted Phases              4                          8              8      2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)      11.1     11.1              11.1    11.1   11.1   20.9    20.9           20.9    20.9
Effective Green, g (s)     11.1     11.1              11.1    11.1   11.1   20.9    20.9           20.9    20.9
Actuated g/C Ratio         0.28     0.28              0.28    0.28   0.28   0.52    0.52           0.52    0.52
Clearance Time (s)          4.0      4.0               4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         358      474               327     517    439    235    1770            187    1815
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.09                      0.05                  0.35                   0.28
v/s Ratio Perm             0.13                      c0.22           0.10   0.20                  c0.88
v/c Ratio                  0.47     0.33              0.78    0.19   0.36   0.38   0.66            1.68   0.53
Uniform Delay, d1          12.0     11.5              13.3    11.0   11.6    5.7    7.0             9.6    6.3
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.0      0.4              11.0     0.2    0.5    4.7    2.0           330.1    1.1
Delay (s)                  13.0     11.9              24.3    11.2   12.1   10.4    9.0           339.7    7.4
Level of Service              B        B                 C       B      B      B      A               F      A
Approach Delay (s)                  12.4                      17.6                  9.0                   88.2
Approach LOS                           B                         B                    A                      F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     39.5         HCM Level of Service              D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  1.37
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     40.0         Sum of lost time (s)             8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           92.7%          ICU Level of Service               F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                  Page 17
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
1: Laurel Road & Canada Valley                                                  2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0               4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.95              1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Frt                        0.97              1.00    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3428              1770    3539    1770    1583
Flt Permitted              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3428              1770    3539    1770    1583
Volume (vph)               566      150      421     836       40    278
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            566      150      421     836       40    278
RTOR Reduction (vph)         22        0        0       0       0    225
Lane Group Flow (vph)      694         0     421     836       40      53
Turn Type                                    Prot                   Perm
Protected Phases              4                 3      8       2
Permitted Phases                                                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     36.4              32.6     73.0   19.0     19.0
Effective Green, g (s)    36.4              32.6     73.0   19.0     19.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.36              0.33     0.73   0.19     0.19
Clearance Time (s)         4.0               4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0               3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       1248               577     2583    336      301
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.20             c0.24     0.24   0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                                      c0.03
v/c Ratio                  0.56             0.73    0.32    0.12     0.18
Uniform Delay, d1          25.4             29.8     4.8    33.6     33.9
Progression Factor         1.00             0.61    0.39    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.8              4.1     0.3     0.7      1.3
Delay (s)                  27.2             22.2     2.1    34.3     35.2
Level of Service              C                C       A       C        D
Approach Delay (s)         27.2                      8.8    35.1
Approach LOS                  C                        A       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                    18.2       HCM Level of Service           B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                 0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                   100.0       Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          57.1%        ICU Level of Service           B
Analysis Period (min)                          15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                         Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                           Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
2: Laurel Road & Country Hills Drive                                            2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95              1.00    0.95           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.98              1.00    0.99           1.00    0.85           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3455              1770    3494           1770    1583           1770    1676
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3455              1770    3494           1770    1583           1770    1676
Volume (vph)              60  636     120      182    1078    100       90       0     95      50      20     40
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           60  636     120      182    1078    100       90       0     95      50      20     40
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0        0       6      0       0       0      0       0      37      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     60  756        0     182    1172       0      90      95      0      50      23      0
Turn Type               Prot                   Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5     2                1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)    7.7 41.3             26.8 60.4                7.7 11.1              4.8     8.2
Effective Green, g (s)   7.7 41.3             26.8 60.4                7.7 11.1              4.8     8.2
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.08 0.41             0.27 0.60               0.08 0.11             0.05    0.08
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      136 1427              474 2110                136   176               85    137
v/s Ratio Prot          0.03 c0.22            0.10 c0.34             c0.05 c0.06            0.03    0.01
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio               0.44 0.53             0.38    0.56           0.66    0.54           0.59    0.17
Uniform Delay, d1       44.1 22.1             29.9    11.8           44.9    42.0           46.6    42.7
Progression Factor      0.88 1.53             1.05    1.03           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    2.0   1.2             0.5     0.9           11.5     3.2           10.0     0.6
Delay (s)               40.6 35.0             31.7    13.1           56.3    45.2           56.6    43.3
Level of Service           D     C               C       B              E       D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)            35.4                    15.6                   50.6                   49.4
Approach LOS                     D                       B                      D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              26.3       HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             100.0       Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    58.0%        ICU Level of Service                  B
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 2
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
3: Laurel Road & SB SR4 Bypass                                                        2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900     1900    1900     1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0                       4.0                                 4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.95                      0.95                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Frt                                  1.00                      1.00                                1.00    1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00                      1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3532                      3539                                1681    1681   1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00                      1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3532                      3539                                1681    1681   1583
Volume (vph)               0         770       11       0      890       0      0      0      0    720        0   471
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0         770       11       0      890       0      0      0      0    720        0   471
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0       0         0      0      0      0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0         781        0       0      890       0      0      0      0    360     360    471
Turn Type                                                                                         Perm         custom
Protected Phases                       2                          6                                          4       4
Permitted Phases                                                                                     4               4
Actuated Green, G (s)                56.9                     56.9                                35.1    35.1 35.1
Effective Green, g (s)               56.9                     56.9                                35.1    35.1 35.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.57                     0.57                                0.35    0.35 0.35
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0                      4.0                                 4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0                      3.0                                 3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  2010                     2014                                 590     590     556
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.22                    c0.25                                               c0.30
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                                    0.21    0.21
v/c Ratio                           0.39                       0.44                               0.61    0.61 0.85
Uniform Delay, d1                   11.9                       12.4                               26.8    26.8 30.0
Progression Factor                  0.09                       0.24                               1.00    1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5                        0.7                                1.9     1.9 11.4
Delay (s)                            1.6                        3.7                               28.7    28.7 41.4
Level of Service                       A                          A                                  C       C       D
Approach Delay (s)                   1.6                        3.7                  0.0                  33.7
Approach LOS                           A                          A                    A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     15.6          HCM Level of Service             B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0          Sum of lost time (s)            8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           91.7%           ICU Level of Service              F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 3
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                    Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
4: Laurel Road & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                               2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900     1900    1900 1900        1900   1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0                       4.0     4.0              4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95                       0.95    1.00             1.00   1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00                       1.00    0.85             1.00   0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00                       1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3539                       3539    1583             1770   1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00                       1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3539                       3539    1583             1770   1583
Volume (vph)            150 1340         0       0      959     730    41           0   210       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         150 1340         0       0      959     730    41           0   210       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0       0         0       0    0           0      0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   150 1340         0       0      959     730     0          41   210       0      0      0
Turn Type               Prot                                   Perm Perm             custom
Protected Phases           5     2                         6                       8       8
Permitted Phases                                                   6        8              8
Actuated Green, G (s)   16.0 76.1                       56.1    56.1            15.9 15.9
Effective Green, g (s)  16.0 76.1                       56.1    56.1            15.9 15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.16 0.76                       0.56    0.56            0.16 0.16
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0                       4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0                       3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      283 2693                       1985     888             281     252
v/s Ratio Prot          0.08 c0.38                      0.27                           c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                                 c0.46            0.02
v/c Ratio               0.53 0.50                       0.48    0.82            0.15 0.83
Uniform Delay, d1       38.5   4.6                      13.2    17.9            36.2 40.8
Progression Factor      0.89 0.60                       0.12    0.20            1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.8   0.6                       0.6     5.8             0.2 20.4
Delay (s)               36.3   3.4                       2.2     9.4            36.4 61.2
Level of Service           D     A                         A       A               D       E
Approach Delay (s)             6.7                       5.3                    57.2                   0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A                       E                     A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay               9.7          HCM Level of Service                 A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.75
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             100.0          Sum of lost time (s)                8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    66.8%           ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                              Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                Page 4
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
5: Laurel Road & Slatten Ranch Road                                        2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00       0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00       0.97           1.00    0.92           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583 1770       4944           3433    3264           1770    3427
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583 1770       4944           3433    3264           1770    3427
Volume (vph)            100 1160    290   260     969    220     610     270    290     230     410    110
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         100 1160    290   260     969    220     610     270    290     230     410    110
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0     0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   100 1160    290   260    1189       0    610     560       0    230     520       0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5     2           1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)    9.6 29.2 29.2 17.0       36.6           20.3   22.5           15.3 17.5
Effective Green, g (s)   9.6 29.2 29.2 17.0       36.6           20.3   22.5           15.3 17.5
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.10 0.29 0.29 0.17       0.37           0.20   0.22           0.15 0.18
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0            4.0    4.0            4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0            3.0    3.0            3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      170 1485    462   301    1810            697    734            271   600
v/s Ratio Prot          0.06 c0.23       c0.15    0.24          c0.18   0.17           0.13 c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.18
v/c Ratio               0.59 0.78 0.63 0.86      0.66            0.88   0.76           0.85    0.87
Uniform Delay, d1       43.3 32.5 30.7 40.4      26.5            38.6   36.3           41.2    40.1
Progression Factor      0.92 0.91 0.90 0.68      0.34            1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.4   3.6   5.4 19.0     1.6            11.8    4.7           21.2    12.5
Delay (s)               44.1 33.0 33.0 46.3      10.7            50.5   41.0           62.4    52.6
Level of Service           D     C     C     D      B               D      D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)            33.7               17.1                   45.9                   55.6
Approach LOS                     C                  B                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             35.0   HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            100.0   Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   82.4%    ICU Level of Service                  E
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                      Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                        Page 5
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                      Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
6: Laurel Road & Live Oak Avenue                                                    2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR       SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     0.91             1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.99             1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     5054             1770    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     5054             1770    1583
Volume (vph)               340      1340     1159      50      130     290
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            340      1340     1159      50      130     290
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0        6      0         0    167
Lane Group Flow (vph)      340      1340     1203       0      130     123
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm
Protected Phases              7        4        8                 6
Permitted Phases                                                          6
Actuated Green, G (s)     15.3       49.5 30.2                 42.5    42.5
Effective Green, g (s)    15.3       49.5 30.2                 42.5    42.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.15       0.50 0.30                 0.42    0.42
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0   4.0                 4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0   3.0                 3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        525       2517 1526                  752     673
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.10       0.26 c0.24                0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.08
v/c Ratio                  0.65     0.53     0.79              0.17    0.18
Uniform Delay, d1          39.8     17.3     32.0              17.8    17.9
Progression Factor         1.21     1.28     0.84              1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.7      0.1      2.4               0.5     0.6
Delay (s)                  50.0     22.4     29.2              18.3    18.5
Level of Service              D        C        C                 B       B
Approach Delay (s)                  28.0     29.2              18.5
Approach LOS                           C        C                 B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     27.2          HCM Level of Service          C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0          Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           50.4%           ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                               Page 6
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
7: Laurel Road & Empire Avenue                                                          2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3463           1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3463           1770    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               420       890     160        50    686       50    110     360      60      60    300     413
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            420       890     160        50    686       50    110     360      60      60    300     413
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      78        0       0      29       0      15      0       0       0    309
Lane Group Flow (vph)      420       890       82       50    686       21    110     405       0      60    300     104
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              7        4                 3      8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8                                              6
Actuated Green, G (s)     17.1 51.4          51.4     6.8     41.1   41.1      9.9 19.0              6.8    15.9    15.9
Effective Green, g (s)    17.1 51.4          51.4     6.8     41.1   41.1      9.9 19.0              6.8    15.9    15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.17 0.51          0.51    0.07     0.41   0.41     0.10 0.19             0.07    0.16    0.16
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0          3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        587 1819           814     120     1455    651      175   658             120     563     252
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.12 c0.25                 0.03     0.19           c0.06 c0.12            0.03    0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.05                    0.01                                           0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.72     0.49     0.10    0.42    0.47    0.03    0.63    0.62           0.50    0.53    0.41
Uniform Delay, d1          39.2     15.8     12.5    44.7    21.5    17.6    43.3    37.2           45.0    38.6    37.8
Progression Factor         0.72     1.49     2.92    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       3.9      0.9      0.2     2.3     1.1     0.1     6.9     1.7            3.3     1.0     1.1
Delay (s)                  32.2     24.3     36.6    47.0    22.6    17.7    50.2    38.9           48.2    39.6    38.9
Level of Service              C        C        D       D       C       B       D       D              D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  27.9                     23.9                    41.2                   39.9
Approach LOS                           C                        C                       D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     31.6       HCM Level of Service                  C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.57
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           60.6%        ICU Level of Service                   B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 7
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                            2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       0.97 0.91 1.00 0.97       0.91    1.00    1.00    0.91    0.91    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00       1.00    0.85    1.00    0.86    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      3433 5085 1583 3433       5085    1583    1770    2933    1441    1770    1863    1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      3433 5085 1583 3433       5085    1583    1770    2933    1441    1770    1863    1583
Volume (vph)              69 1710     60  530    1090     464     220       20    360     229       20      84
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           69 1710     60  530    1090     464     220       20    360     229       20      84
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0    32     0       0    202        0    166     166        0       0      78
Lane Group Flow (vph)     69 1710     28  530    1090     262     220       34      14    229       20       6
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases           5     2           1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                       2                    6                       8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)    6.4 46.3 46.3 22.1       62.0   62.0    18.1   8.7       8.7     16.9    7.5     7.5
Effective Green, g (s)   6.4 46.3 46.3 22.1       62.0   62.0    18.1   8.7       8.7     16.9    7.5     7.5
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.06 0.42 0.42 0.20       0.56   0.56    0.16 0.08       0.08     0.15   0.07    0.07
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      200 2140    666   690    2866    892     291   232       114      272    127     108
v/s Ratio Prot          0.02 c0.34       c0.15    0.21           0.12 c0.01              c0.13   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                 0.17                    0.01                    0.00
v/c Ratio               0.34 0.80 0.04 0.77      0.38    0.29    0.76    0.15    0.12     0.84   0.16    0.05
Uniform Delay, d1       49.8 27.8 18.8 41.5      13.3    12.5    43.8    47.2    47.1     45.3   48.3    47.9
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00 0.69      1.11    4.99    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.0   3.2   0.1   4.4    0.3     0.7    10.7     0.3     0.5     20.4    0.6     0.2
Delay (s)               50.8 31.0 18.9 33.2      15.1    63.3    54.5    47.5    47.6     65.6   48.9    48.1
Level of Service           D     C     B     C      B       E       D       D       D        E      D       D
Approach Delay (s)            31.4               30.4                    50.1                    60.2
Approach LOS                     C                  C                       D                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             35.3   HCM Level of Service                   D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   78.6%    ICU Level of Service                  D
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                          Page 8
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                           Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
9: Lone Tree Way & SB SR4 Bypass                                         2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0                                 4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.91 1.00 0.97      0.91                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                           1.00 0.85 1.00      1.00                                1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00 1.00 0.95      1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            5085 1583 3433      5085                                1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00 1.00 0.95      1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            5085 1583 3433      5085                                1681     1681    1583
Volume (vph)               0 2051   368   380    1844       0      0      0      0    849         0    240
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0 2051   368   380    1844       0      0      0      0    849         0    240
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0     0       0      0      0      0      0       0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0 2051   368   380    1844       0      0      0      0    425      424     240
Turn Type                          Perm   Prot                                        Split           Perm
Protected Phases                 2           1      6                                    4       4
Permitted Phases                       2                                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         52.2 52.2 15.0      71.2                                30.8    30.8    30.8
Effective Green, g (s)        52.2 52.2 15.0      71.2                                30.8    30.8    30.8
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.47 0.47 0.14      0.65                                0.28    0.28    0.28
Clearance Time (s)             4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0                                 4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0                                 3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           2413   751   468    3291                                 471     471     443
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.40       c0.11    0.36                               c0.25    0.25
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.23                                                              0.15
v/c Ratio                     0.85 0.49 0.81     0.56                                 0.90    0.90    0.54
Uniform Delay, d1             25.5 19.8 46.1     10.7                                 38.2    38.1    33.6
Progression Factor            0.66 0.51 0.95     0.72                                 1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          2.9   1.6   9.1    0.6                                 20.3    20.0     1.4
Delay (s)                     19.6 11.7 53.1      8.3                                 58.4    58.1    35.0
Level of Service                 B     B     D      A                                    E       E       C
Approach Delay (s)            18.4               16.0                   0.0                   53.2
Approach LOS                     B                  B                     A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             24.1   HCM Level of Service               C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)             12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   84.0%    ICU Level of Service                E
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                       Page 9
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
10: Lone Tree Way & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                        2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900 1900      1900    1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0       4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.91 1.00       0.97    0.91    1.00 0.97      1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            5085 1583       3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            5085 1583       3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Volume (vph)               0 2620   280         60   1695     711  530         50    340       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0 2620   280         60   1695     711  530         50    340       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0         0       0       0    0         0       0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0 2620   280         60   1695     711  530         50    340       0      0      0
Turn Type                          Perm       Prot           Perm Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                 2               1      6                      8
Permitted Phases                       2                         6      8               8
Actuated Green, G (s)         67.7 67.7       3.2     74.9    74.9   27.1   27.1     27.1
Effective Green, g (s)        67.7 67.7       3.2     74.9    74.9   27.1   27.1     27.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.62 0.62      0.03     0.68    0.68   0.25   0.25     0.25
Clearance Time (s)             4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0   3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           3130   974      100     3462    1078    846    459      390
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.52           0.02     0.33                  0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.18                     c0.45   0.15           c0.21
v/c Ratio                     0.84 0.29      0.60    0.49     0.66   0.63   0.11     0.87
Uniform Delay, d1             16.8   9.9     52.8     8.4     10.2   36.9   32.1     39.8
Progression Factor            0.29 0.27      1.12    1.76     1.63   1.00   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.4   0.4      4.0     0.2      1.3    1.5    0.1     18.8
Delay (s)                      6.3   3.1     63.3    15.0     17.8   38.4   32.2     58.5
Level of Service                 A     A        E       B        B      D      C        E
Approach Delay (s)             6.0                   17.0                   45.5                    0.0
Approach LOS                     A                      B                      D                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             16.1       HCM Level of Service                  B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   78.3%        ICU Level of Service                  D
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                            Page 10
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
11: Lone Tree Way & Slatten Ranch Road                                                 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.85    1.00    0.99           1.00    0.97           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     1583    1770    5055           3433    3445           3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     1583    1770    5055           3433    3445           3433    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               470      1970      530       50   1476      60    400     370      80      80    550     570
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            470      1970      530       50   1476      60    400     370      80      80    550     570
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       57       0       4      0       0      16      0       0       0    264
Lane Group Flow (vph)      470      1970      473       50   1532       0    400     434       0      80    550     306
Turn Type                  Prot             pm+ov     Prot                   Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2         3       1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                                    4
Actuated Green, G (s)     22.8 53.0           67.3    6.2 36.4               14.3   30.6            4.2    20.5    20.5
Effective Green, g (s)    22.8 53.0           67.3    6.2 36.4               14.3   30.6            4.2    20.5    20.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.21 0.48           0.61   0.06 0.33               0.13   0.28           0.04    0.19    0.19
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0           4.0    4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0           3.0    3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        712 2450            969    100 1673                446    958            131     660     295
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.14 c0.39          0.06   0.03 c0.30             c0.12   0.13           0.02    0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.24                                                              c0.19
v/c Ratio                  0.66     0.80      0.49   0.50    0.92            0.90   0.45           0.61    0.83 1.04
Uniform Delay, d1          40.0     24.1      11.8   50.4    35.3            47.1   32.8           52.1    43.1 44.8
Progression Factor         0.76     0.41      0.33   0.77    1.23            1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.3      1.6       0.2    3.4     8.3            20.2    0.3            8.2     8.9 62.0
Delay (s)                  31.7     11.5       4.1   42.4    51.7            67.3   33.1           60.3    52.0 106.7
Level of Service              C        B         A      D       D               E      C              E       D     F
Approach Delay (s)                  13.4                     51.4                   49.2                   78.5
Approach LOS                           B                        D                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     39.0       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.87
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           86.6%        ICU Level of Service                  E
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 11
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                               2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00        1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    1.00    1.00    0.97    0.95
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85        1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.92
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583        1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3274
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583        1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3274
Volume (vph)            160 1370    600         20    926     160     440     120       40    310     220    220
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         160 1370    600         20    926     160     440     120       40    310     220    220
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0  280          0       0      93       0       0      36       0    187       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   160 1370    320         20    926       67    440     120        4    310     253       0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm       Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot
Protected Phases           5     2               1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                       2                        6                       8
Actuated Green, G (s)   20.4 58.7 58.7        3.1 41.4       41.4     19.2   12.0    12.0    20.2 13.0
Effective Green, g (s)  20.4 58.7 58.7        3.1 41.4       41.4     19.2   12.0    12.0    20.2 13.0
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.19 0.53 0.53       0.03 0.38       0.38     0.17   0.11    0.11    0.18 0.12
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0      4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0      3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      328 2714    845        50 1914       596      599    203     173     630   387
v/s Ratio Prot          0.09 c0.27           0.01 c0.18              c0.13   0.06            0.09 c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.20                     0.04                    0.00
v/c Ratio               0.49 0.50 0.38       0.40    0.48    0.11     0.73   0.59    0.03    0.49    0.65
Uniform Delay, d1       40.1 16.4 15.0       52.5    26.2    22.3     43.0   46.7    43.8    40.3    46.4
Progression Factor      0.52 0.21 0.93       1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    0.7   0.4   0.8      5.2     0.9     0.4      4.7    4.6     0.1     0.6     3.9
Delay (s)               21.8   3.9 14.7      57.7    27.0    22.7     47.6   51.2    43.8    40.9    50.3
Level of Service           C     A     B        E       C       C        D      D       D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)             8.3                   27.0                    48.1                    46.4
Approach LOS                     A                      C                       D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             24.2       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   68.8%        ICU Level of Service                  C
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 12
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd                                                     2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         3.5       4.0              3.5     4.0            3.5     4.0            3.5     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    0.98           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5012             1770    5007           3433    3374           1770    3419
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5012             1770    5007           3433    3374           1770    3419
Volume (vph)               320      1782     190      190    1400    160     260     400    180     310     510    150
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            320      1782     190      190    1400    160     260     400    180     310     510    150
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        11       0        0      13      0       0      47      0       0      25      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      320      1961        0     190    1547       0    260     533       0    310     635       0
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)     20.0 47.0                  12.0     39.0          10.0 18.0               17.0   25.0
Effective Green, g (s)    20.5 47.0                  12.5     39.0          10.5 18.0               17.5   25.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19 0.43                  0.11     0.35          0.10 0.16               0.16   0.23
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0                  4.0      4.0           4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0           3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        330 2141                   201     1775           328   552               282    777
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.18 c0.39                 0.11     0.31          0.08 c0.16             c0.18   0.19
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                  0.97     0.92             0.95    0.87           0.79    0.97            1.10   0.82
Uniform Delay, d1          44.4     29.6             48.4    33.2           48.7    45.7            46.2   40.3
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      40.9      7.6             47.6     6.2           12.3    29.5            82.8    6.7
Delay (s)                  85.3     37.2             96.1    39.4           61.0    75.2           129.1   47.0
Level of Service              F        D                F       D              E       E               F      D
Approach Delay (s)                  44.0                     45.5                   70.8                   73.2
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      E                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     53.1       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.95
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           96.5%        ICU Level of Service                  F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 13
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Avenue                                                     2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00     0.95           0.91     0.91    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.93           1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5049             1770    5085    1583    1770     3294           1610     3274    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5049             1770    5085    1583    1770     3294           1610     3274    1583
Volume (vph)               703      1619       80     100    1174     480       50       70     60    580      120     446
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            703      1619       80     100    1174     480       50       70     60    580      120     446
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         4       0        0       0    368        0       56      0       0        0    349
Lane Group Flow (vph)      703      1695        0     100    1174     112       50       74      0    290      410       97
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                8       8               4       4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     43.2       57.2            12.0 26.0       26.0      8.7     8.7            26.1    26.1    26.1
Effective Green, g (s)    43.2       57.2            12.0 26.0       26.0      8.7     8.7            26.1    26.1    26.1
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.36       0.48            0.10 0.22       0.22     0.07    0.07            0.22    0.22    0.22
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0             4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0             3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        637       2407             177 1102        343      128     239             350     712     344
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.40       0.34            0.06 c0.23              c0.03    0.02           c0.18    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.07                                             0.06
v/c Ratio                 1.10      0.70             0.56    1.07    0.33     0.39    0.31            0.83    0.58    0.28
Uniform Delay, d1         38.4      24.7             51.5    47.0    39.6     53.1    52.8            44.8    42.0    39.1
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     67.4       1.8              4.1    46.3     2.5      2.0     0.7            14.8     1.1     0.5
Delay (s)                105.8      26.5             55.6    93.3    42.1     55.1    53.6            59.7    43.1    39.6
Level of Service             F         C                E       F       D        E       D               E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  49.7                     77.2                     54.0                    45.9
Approach LOS                           D                        E                        D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     57.8       HCM Level of Service                   E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.97
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           94.9%        ICU Level of Service                    F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                      Page 14
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande Drive                                 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR NBL                 NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900           1900    1900 1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00           1.00    0.85 1.00     0.88
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95           1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583 1770 5085 1583 1770           1863    1583 1770     1637
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95 1.00 1.00 0.53           1.00    1.00 0.72     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583 1770 5085 1583        985     1863    1583 1349     1637
Volume (vph)            190 1649    390   300 1204      90  320        50    220    70       40   170
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         190 1649    390   300 1204      90  320        50    220    70       40   170
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0  186      0     0    53     0        0    147     0     113       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   190 1649    204   300 1204      37  320        50      73   70       97      0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot       Perm Perm              Perm Perm
Protected Phases           7     4           3     8                   2                     6
Permitted Phases                       4                 8     2               2      6
Actuated Green, G (s)   16.1 41.5 41.5 19.9 45.3 45.3 36.6          36.6    36.6   36.6   36.6
Effective Green, g (s)  16.1 41.5 41.5 19.9 45.3 45.3 36.6          36.6    36.6   36.6   36.6
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.15 0.38 0.38 0.18 0.41 0.41 0.33          0.33    0.33   0.33   0.33
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      259 1918    597   320 2094    652   328     620     527    449    545
v/s Ratio Prot          0.11 c0.32       c0.17 c0.24                0.03                  0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.13              0.02 c0.32            0.05   0.05
v/c Ratio               0.73 0.86 0.34 0.94 0.57 0.06 0.98          0.08    0.14   0.16   0.18
Uniform Delay, d1       44.9 31.6 24.5 44.4 24.9 19.5 36.3          25.2    25.7   25.8   26.0
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00          1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2   10.3   5.3   1.6 33.9    1.2   0.2 42.7      0.1     0.1    0.2    0.2
Delay (s)               55.2 36.9 26.0 78.4 26.1 19.7 79.0          25.2    25.8   26.0   26.2
Level of Service           E     D     C     E     C     B     E       C       C      C      C
Approach Delay (s)            36.5              35.6                54.6                  26.1
Approach LOS                     D                 D                   D                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             37.9   HCM Level of Service             D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)           16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   92.1%    ICU Level of Service              F
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                  Page 15
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
16: Country Hills Drive & Hillcrest Avenue                                             2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    0.90           1.00    0.99           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1683           1770    3506           1770    3497
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1683           1770    3506           1770    3497
Volume (vph)              70           20    100      120       50     90    100    1053      70    110     916      80
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           70           20    100      120       50     90    100    1053      70    110     916      80
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0      90        0      78      0       0       4      0       0       6      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     70           20      10     120       62      0    100    1119       0    110     990       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7           4                 3      8               5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)    6.1         8.4      8.4      8.7 11.0              8.4 42.2                7.9    41.7
Effective Green, g (s)   6.1         8.4      8.4      8.7 11.0              8.4 42.2                7.9    41.7
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07        0.10     0.10     0.10 0.13             0.10 0.51               0.09    0.50
Clearance Time (s)       4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      130         188      160      185   223             179 1778                168    1753
v/s Ratio Prot          0.04        0.01             c0.07 c0.04            0.06 c0.32             c0.06    0.28
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01
v/c Ratio               0.54        0.11     0.06    0.65    0.28           0.56    0.63            0.65   0.56
Uniform Delay, d1       37.2        34.0     33.8    35.8    32.5           35.6    14.8            36.3   14.4
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.2         0.3      0.2     7.6     0.7            3.7     1.7             8.8    1.3
Delay (s)               41.4        34.2     34.0    43.4    33.2           39.4    16.5            45.2   15.8
Level of Service           D           C        C       D       C              D       B               D      B
Approach Delay (s)                  36.8                     37.9                   18.4                   18.7
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     21.6       HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     83.2       Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           62.8%        ICU Level of Service                  B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 16
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
18: Laurel Road & Hillcrest Avenue                                               2025 No Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00              1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00 0.91              1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.97           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 1701              1770    1863    1583    1770    3419           1770    3436
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 1701              1770    1863    1583    1770    3419           1770    3436
Volume (vph)            140     80    110      346     120     240       90    970    283     273     910    220
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         140     80    110      346     120     240       90    970    283     273     910    220
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0    46       0        0       0    194        0      20      0       0      15      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   140   145        0     346     120       46      90   1233       0    273    1115       0
Turn Type               Prot                   Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7     4                3      8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)   14.0 15.0              22.0   23.0    23.0     8.7 50.0               17.0    58.3
Effective Green, g (s)  14.0 15.0              22.0   23.0    23.0     8.7 50.0               17.0    58.3
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.12 0.12              0.18   0.19    0.19    0.07 0.42               0.14    0.49
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0              4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0               4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0              3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      207   213              325    357     303     128 1425                251    1669
v/s Ratio Prot          0.08 c0.08            c0.20   0.06            0.05 c0.36             c0.15    0.32
v/s Ratio Perm                                                0.03
v/c Ratio               0.68 0.68              1.06   0.34    0.15    0.70    0.87            1.09   0.67
Uniform Delay, d1       50.8 50.2              49.0   41.9    40.4    54.4    31.9            51.5   23.5
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00              1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    8.4   8.3             68.1    0.6     0.2    16.1     7.3            82.2    2.1
Delay (s)               59.3 58.5             117.1   42.5    40.6    70.4    39.2           133.7   25.6
Level of Service           E     E                F      D       D       E       D               F      C
Approach Delay (s)            58.8                    78.4                    41.3                   46.6
Approach LOS                     E                       E                       D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              51.7       HCM Level of Service                  D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.92
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    94.4%        ICU Level of Service                   F
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 17
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Cumulative With Project
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
1: Laurel Road & Canada Valley                                                 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0               4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.95              1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Frt                        0.99              1.00    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3489              1770    3539    1770    1583
Flt Permitted              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3489              1770    3539    1770    1583
Volume (vph)               960      100      260     670     120     290
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            960      100      260     670     120     290
RTOR Reduction (vph)          8        0        0       0       0    226
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1052         0     260     670     120       64
Turn Type                                    Prot                   Perm
Protected Phases              4                 3      8       2
Permitted Phases                                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)     40.4              17.6     62.0 20.0      20.0
Effective Green, g (s)    40.4              17.6     62.0 20.0      20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.45              0.20     0.69 0.22      0.22
Clearance Time (s)         4.0               4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0               3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       1566               346     2438   393      352
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.30             c0.15     0.19 c0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                      0.04
v/c Ratio                  0.67             0.75    0.27    0.31    0.18
Uniform Delay, d1          19.6             34.1     5.4    29.2    28.4
Progression Factor         1.00             1.01    0.42    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.3              8.4     0.3     2.0     1.1
Delay (s)                  21.9             42.9     2.5    31.2    29.5
Level of Service              C                D       A       C       C
Approach Delay (s)         21.9                     13.8    30.0
Approach LOS                  C                        B       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                    20.1       HCM Level of Service          C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                 0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    90.0       Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          60.8%        ICU Level of Service           B
Analysis Period (min)                          15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                          Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                            Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
2: Laurel Road & Country Hills Drive                                           2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95              1.00    0.95           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.95              1.00    0.99           1.00    0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3350              1770    3516           1770    1599           1770    1676
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3350              1770    3516           1770    1599           1770    1676
Volume (vph)              40  760     420      100     660      30    160       20   330       80      30     60
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           40  760     420      100     660      30    160       20   330       80      30     60
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0        0       3      0       0       0      0       0      50      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     40 1180        0     100     687       0    160     350       0      80      40      0
Turn Type               Prot                   Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5     2                1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)    3.6 39.8               7.2    43.4           12.2 22.2              4.8    14.8
Effective Green, g (s)   3.6 39.8               7.2    43.4           12.2 22.2              4.8    14.8
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.04 0.44              0.08    0.48           0.14 0.25             0.05    0.16
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0              3.0     3.0            3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        71 1481              142    1695            240   394               94    276
v/s Ratio Prot          0.02 c0.35            c0.06    0.20          c0.09 c0.22            0.05    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio               0.56 0.80              0.70   0.41           0.67    0.89           0.85    0.14
Uniform Delay, d1       42.4 21.6              40.4   15.0           37.0    32.7           42.2    32.2
Progression Factor      0.93 1.68              0.91   0.92           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    8.0   3.7             14.1    0.7            6.8    20.8           48.3     0.2
Delay (s)               47.5 40.1              51.0   14.5           43.8    53.5           90.6    32.4
Level of Service           D     D                D      B              D       D              F       C
Approach Delay (s)            40.3                    19.1                   50.4                   59.8
Approach LOS                     D                       B                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              37.2       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)              90.0       Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    79.2%        ICU Level of Service                 D
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 2
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
3: Laurel Road & SB SR4 Bypass                                                2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900     1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0                       4.0                                 4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.95                      0.95                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Frt                           0.99                      1.00                                1.00    1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00                      1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3498                      3539                                1681    1681   1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00                      1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3498                      3539                                1681    1681   1583
Volume (vph)               0 1080       90       0      450       0      0      0      0    840        0   340
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0 1080       90       0      450       0      0      0      0    840        0   340
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0       0         0      0      0      0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0 1170        0       0      450       0      0      0      0    420     420    340
Turn Type                                                                                  Perm         custom
Protected Phases                 2                         6                                          4       4
Permitted Phases                                                                               4              4
Actuated Green, G (s)         53.4                      53.4                                28.6   28.6 28.6
Effective Green, g (s)        53.4                      53.4                                28.6   28.6 28.6
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.59                      0.59                                0.32   0.32 0.32
Clearance Time (s)             4.0                       4.0                                 4.0    4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0                       3.0                                 3.0    3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           2075                      2100                                 534    534     503
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.33                      0.13                                               0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                             c0.25   0.25
v/c Ratio                     0.56                      0.21                                0.79   0.79 0.68
Uniform Delay, d1             11.2                       8.5                                27.9   27.9 26.7
Progression Factor            0.42                      0.07                                1.00   1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          0.7                       0.2                                 7.5    7.5     3.6
Delay (s)                      5.4                       0.8                                35.4   35.4 30.3
Level of Service                 A                         A                                   D      D       C
Approach Delay (s)             5.4                       0.8                  0.0                  33.9
Approach LOS                     A                         A                    A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              16.7          HCM Level of Service             B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)              90.0          Sum of lost time (s)            8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    83.2%           ICU Level of Service              E
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                          Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                            Page 3
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                           Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
4: Laurel Road & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                                     2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900 1900        1900   1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0                       4.0     4.0              4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.95                      0.95    1.00             1.00   1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00                      1.00    0.85             1.00   0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00                      1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      3539                      3539    1583             1770   1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00                      1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      3539                      3539    1583             1770   1583
Volume (vph)               260      1660        0       0      580     620    20           0   100       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            260      1660        0       0      580     620    20           0   100       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       0       0         0       0    0           0      0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      260      1660        0       0      580     620     0          20   100       0      0      0
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm Perm             custom
Protected Phases              5        2                          6                       8       8
Permitted Phases                                                          6        8              8
Actuated Green, G (s)     18.0       71.2                      49.2    49.2            10.8 10.8
Effective Green, g (s)    18.0       71.2                      49.2    49.2            10.8 10.8
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.20       0.79                      0.55    0.55            0.12 0.12
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0                       4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0                       3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        354       2800                      1935     865             212     190
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.15       0.47                      0.16                           c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.39            0.01
v/c Ratio                  0.73     0.59                       0.30    0.72            0.09 0.53
Uniform Delay, d1          33.8      3.7                       11.1    15.2            35.2 37.2
Progression Factor         1.03     0.96                       0.07    0.22            1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       6.4      0.8                        0.3     4.1             0.2     2.6
Delay (s)                  41.2      4.3                        1.1     7.4            35.4 39.8
Level of Service              D        A                          A       A               D       D
Approach Delay (s)                   9.3                        4.3                    39.1                   0.0
Approach LOS                           A                          A                       D                     A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      8.6          HCM Level of Service                 A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.69
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0          Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           66.1%           ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                       Page 4
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
5: Laurel Road & Slatten Ranch Road                                                   2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         0.91    1.00     1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    0.96           1.00    0.94           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         5085    1583     1770    4899           3433    3332           1770    3443
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         5085    1583     1770    4899           3433    3332           1770    3443
Volume (vph)            160          970     630      260     990    320     170     250    160     130     180      40
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         160          970     630      260     990    320     170     250    160     130     180      40
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   160          970     630      260    1310       0    170     410       0    130     220       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5           2                 1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                2
Actuated Green, G (s)   15.0         37.5    37.5     14.7    37.2          11.0 14.8                7.0   10.8
Effective Green, g (s)  15.0         37.5    37.5     14.7    37.2          11.0 14.8                7.0   10.8
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.17         0.42    0.42     0.16    0.41          0.12 0.16               0.08   0.12
Clearance Time (s)       4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0           4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0          3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0           3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      295         2119     660      289    2025           420   548               138    413
v/s Ratio Prot          0.09         0.19            c0.15    0.27          0.05 c0.12             c0.07   0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.40
v/c Ratio               0.54        0.46     0.95     0.90   0.65           0.40    0.75            0.94   0.53
Uniform Delay, d1       34.4        18.9     25.4     36.9   21.1           36.5    35.8            41.3   37.2
Progression Factor      0.84        0.74     0.75     0.70   0.57           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.7         0.6     22.4     25.1    1.4            0.6     5.5            58.8    1.3
Delay (s)               30.4        14.6     41.4     51.1   13.4           37.1    41.4           100.1   38.6
Level of Service           C           B        D        D      B              D       D               F      D
Approach Delay (s)                  25.6                     19.6                   40.1                   61.4
Approach LOS                           C                        B                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     28.3       HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0       Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           69.7%        ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                    Page 5
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                      Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
6: Laurel Road & Live Oak Avenue                                                   2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR       SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     0.91             1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.99             1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     5034             1770    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     5034             1770    1583
Volume (vph)               290       970     1260      90        60    310
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            290       970     1260      90        60    310
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0        9      0         0    219
Lane Group Flow (vph)      290       970     1342       0        60      91
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm
Protected Phases              7        4        8                 6
Permitted Phases                                                          6
Actuated Green, G (s)     12.6       55.6 39.0                 26.4    26.4
Effective Green, g (s)    12.6       55.6 39.0                 26.4    26.4
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.14       0.62 0.43                 0.29    0.29
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0   4.0                 4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0   3.0                 3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        481       3141 2181                  519     464
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.08       0.19 c0.27                0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.06
v/c Ratio                  0.60     0.31     0.62              0.12    0.20
Uniform Delay, d1          36.4      8.1     19.7              23.3    23.8
Progression Factor         0.91     1.48     0.61              1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.8      0.0      0.4               0.5     0.9
Delay (s)                  34.7     12.1     12.5              23.7    24.8
Level of Service              C        B        B                 C       C
Approach Delay (s)                  17.3     12.5              24.6
Approach LOS                           B        B                 C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     16.0          HCM Level of Service           B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0          Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           52.2%           ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                              Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                Page 6
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
7: Laurel Road & Empire Avenue                                                         2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3516           1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3516           1770    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               300       680       50       70    860     140     140     220      10      40    310     350
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            300       680       50       70    860     140     140     220      10      40    310     350
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      28        0       0      85       0       4      0       0       0     236
Lane Group Flow (vph)      300       680       22       70    860       55    140     226       0      40    310     114
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              7        4                 3      8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8                                               6
Actuated Green, G (s)     12.3       40.4    40.4     7.1 35.2       35.2     11.2   22.9            3.6 15.3        15.3
Effective Green, g (s)    12.3       40.4    40.4     7.1 35.2       35.2     11.2   22.9            3.6 15.3        15.3
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.14       0.45    0.45    0.08 0.39       0.39     0.12   0.25           0.04 0.17        0.17
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0            4.0   4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0            3.0   3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        469       1589     711     140 1384        619      220    895              71  602        269
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.09       0.19            0.04 c0.24              c0.08   0.06           0.02 c0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01                    0.03                                            0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.64     0.43     0.03    0.50    0.62    0.09     0.64   0.25           0.56    0.51     0.42
Uniform Delay, d1          36.8     16.9     13.9    39.7    22.0    17.3     37.5   26.7           42.4    34.0     33.4
Progression Factor         1.18     0.74     1.71    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.8      0.8      0.1     2.8     2.1     0.3      5.9    0.1            9.8     0.7      1.1
Delay (s)                  46.1     13.3     23.7    42.5    24.1    17.6     43.4   26.9           52.3    34.7     34.5
Level of Service              D        B        C       D       C       B        D      C              D       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                  23.4                     24.5                    33.1                   35.6
Approach LOS                           C                        C                       C                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     27.6       HCM Level of Service                  C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     90.0       Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           63.2%        ICU Level of Service                   B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 7
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                               2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       0.97 0.91 1.00        0.97    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.91    0.91    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85        1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.87    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      3433 5085 1583        3433    5085    1583    1770    2938    1441    1770    1863    1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      3433 5085 1583        3433    5085    1583    1770    2938    1441    1770    1863    1583
Volume (vph)              60  950     20      260    1460     260       50      10    160     360       10      80
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           60  950     20      260    1460     260       50      10    160     360       10      80
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0    12         0       0    125        0      74      74       0       0      60
Lane Group Flow (vph)     60  950      8      260    1460     135       50      16       6    360       10      20
Turn Type               Prot       Perm       Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases           5     2               1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                       2                        6                       8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)    3.2 46.5 46.5       14.0 57.3       57.3     6.2   7.8       7.8     25.7   27.3    27.3
Effective Green, g (s)   3.2 46.5 46.5       14.0 57.3       57.3     6.2   7.8       7.8     25.7   27.3    27.3
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.03 0.42 0.42       0.13 0.52       0.52    0.06 0.07       0.07     0.23   0.25    0.25
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0      4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0      3.0   3.0       3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      100 2150    669      437 2649        825     100   208       102      414    462     393
v/s Ratio Prot          0.02 c0.19           0.08 c0.29              0.03 c0.01              c0.20   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.09                    0.00                    0.01
v/c Ratio               0.60 0.44 0.01       0.59    0.55    0.16    0.50    0.08    0.06     0.87   0.02    0.05
Uniform Delay, d1       52.8 22.5 18.4       45.3    17.7    13.8    50.4    47.7    47.7     40.5   31.3    31.5
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00       0.64    0.87    1.14    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    9.7   0.7   0.0      1.9     0.7     0.4     3.9     0.2     0.2     17.4    0.0     0.1
Delay (s)               62.5 23.2 18.5       31.0    16.1    16.2    54.3    47.9    47.9     57.9   31.3    31.5
Level of Service           E     C     B        C       B       B       D       D       D        E      C       C
Approach Delay (s)            25.4                   18.1                    49.3                    52.6
Approach LOS                     C                      B                       D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             26.2       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   68.2%        ICU Level of Service                  C
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                              Page 8
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                       Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
9: Lone Tree Way & SB SR4 Bypass                                                    2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0                                 4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00     0.97    0.91                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00                                1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   5085    1583     3433    5085                                1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   5085    1583     3433    5085                                1681     1681    1583
Volume (vph)               0        1170     300      160    1780       0      0      0      0    740         0    200
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0        1170     300      160    1780       0      0      0      0    740         0    200
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0       0      0      0      0      0       0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0        1170     300      160    1780       0      0      0      0    370      370     200
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                                        Split           Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1      6                                    4       4
Permitted Phases                                2                                                                    4
Actuated Green, G (s)                52.5    52.5    16.0 72.5                                    29.5    29.5    29.5
Effective Green, g (s)               52.5    52.5    16.0 72.5                                    29.5    29.5    29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.48    0.48    0.15 0.66                                    0.27    0.27    0.27
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0                                    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0                                    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  2427     756     499 3351                                     451     451     425
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.23            0.05 c0.35                                  c0.22    0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.19                                                                 0.13
v/c Ratio                           0.48     0.40    0.32    0.53                                 0.82    0.82    0.47
Uniform Delay, d1                   19.5     18.5    42.1     9.8                                 37.8    37.8    33.7
Progression Factor                  1.05     1.01    1.11    0.95                                 1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6      1.4     0.3     0.6                                 11.4    11.4     0.8
Delay (s)                           21.1     20.1    46.9     9.9                                 49.1    49.1    34.5
Level of Service                       C        C       D       A                                    D       D       C
Approach Delay (s)                  20.9                     13.0                   0.0                   46.0
Approach LOS                           C                        B                     A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     22.8       HCM Level of Service               C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)              8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           61.6%        ICU Level of Service                B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 9
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
10: Lone Tree Way & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                               2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900 1900      1900    1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0       4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.91    1.00     0.97    0.91    1.00 0.97      1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   5085    1583     3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   5085    1583     3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Volume (vph)               0        1610     300        70   1660     720  280         10    250       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0        1610     300        70   1660     720  280         10    250       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0       0        0       0       0    0         0       0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0        1610     300        70   1660     720  280         10    250       0      0      0
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot           Perm Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                       2                 1      6                      8
Permitted Phases                                 2                       6      8               8
Actuated Green, G (s)                70.4     70.4    5.6     80.0    80.0   22.0   22.0     22.0
Effective Green, g (s)               70.4     70.4    5.6     80.0    80.0   22.0   22.0     22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.64     0.64   0.05     0.73    0.73   0.20   0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  3254     1013    175     3698    1151    687    373      317
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.32            0.02     0.33                  0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.19                    c0.45   0.08           c0.16
v/c Ratio                           0.49     0.30    0.40    0.45     0.63   0.41   0.03     0.79
Uniform Delay, d1                   10.4      8.8    50.6     6.1      7.5   38.3   35.4     41.8
Progression Factor                  0.22     0.25    1.04    0.68     0.98   1.00   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5      0.6     0.9     0.2      1.5    0.4    0.0     12.2
Delay (s)                            2.7      2.8    53.7     4.3      8.8   38.7   35.4     54.0
Level of Service                       A        A       D       A        A      D      D        D
Approach Delay (s)                   2.8                      7.1                   45.7                    0.0
Approach LOS                           A                        A                      D                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                      9.6       HCM Level of Service                  A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           54.6%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                    Page 10
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                    Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
11: Lone Tree Way & Slatten Ranch Road                                            2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL   WBT   WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900 1900 1900      1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0   4.0  4.0             4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     1.00 1.00 0.91             0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.85 1.00 1.00             1.00    0.99           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00 0.95 1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     1583 1770 5063             3433    3509           3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00 0.95 1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     1583 1770 5063             3433    3509           3433    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               460      1140      240    70 1700       50    500     500      30      10    150     280
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00 1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            460      1140      240    70 1700       50    500     500      30      10    150     280
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       79     0    2       0       0       4      0       0       0    167
Lane Group Flow (vph)      460      1140      161    70 1748        0    500     526       0      10    150     113
Turn Type                  Prot             pm+ov   Prot                 Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2         3     1    6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     16.8       55.0     74.0   4.8 43.0            19.0 33.4              0.8    15.2    15.2
Effective Green, g (s)    16.8       55.0     74.0   4.8 43.0            19.0 33.4              0.8    15.2    15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.15       0.50     0.67 0.04 0.39             0.17 0.30             0.01    0.14    0.14
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0      4.0   4.0  4.0             4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0      3.0   3.0  3.0             3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        524       2543     1065    77 1979             593 1065                25    489     219
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.13       0.22     0.03 0.04 c0.35           c0.15 c0.15            0.00    0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.08                                                             0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.88     0.45      0.15 0.91 0.88            0.84    0.49           0.40    0.31    0.52
Uniform Delay, d1          45.6     17.7       6.6 52.4 31.2            44.1    31.4           54.4    42.7    44.0
Progression Factor         1.26     1.43      3.65 1.22 1.46            1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      13.7      0.5       0.1 62.1   5.0           10.6     0.4           10.2     0.4     2.0
Delay (s)                  71.3     25.9      24.0 125.9 50.5           54.6    31.7           64.5    43.0    46.0
Level of Service              E        C         C     F    D              D       C              E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  37.0                 53.4                   42.8                   45.4
Approach LOS                           D                    D                      D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     44.7     HCM Level of Service               D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0     Sum of lost time (s)             12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           78.8%      ICU Level of Service               D
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                              Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                               Page 11
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                                      2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91    1.00     1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    1.00    1.00    0.97    0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.92
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3260
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5085    1583     1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3260
Volume (vph)               220       710     260        30   1210     340     510     200       20      90      90   100
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            220       710     260        30   1210     340     510     200       20      90      90   100
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0    121         0       0    158        0       0      16       0      92      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      220       710     139        30   1210     182     510     200        4      90      98      0
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                                2                       6                       8
Actuated Green, G (s)     22.5       59.0    59.0     4.3 40.8       40.8     22.2 19.4      19.4    11.3     8.5
Effective Green, g (s)    22.5       59.0    59.0     4.3 40.8       40.8     22.2 19.4      19.4    11.3     8.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.20       0.54    0.54    0.04 0.37       0.37     0.20 0.18      0.18    0.10    0.08
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        362       2727     849       69 1886       587      693   329      279     353     252
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.12       0.14            0.02 c0.24              c0.15 c0.11             0.03    0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.09                    0.12                    0.00
v/c Ratio                  0.61     0.26     0.16    0.43    0.64    0.31    0.74    0.61    0.01    0.25    0.39
Uniform Delay, d1          39.7     13.7     13.0    51.7    28.6    24.6    41.2    41.8    37.4    45.5    48.3
Progression Factor         1.36     1.52     6.92    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.7      0.2      0.4     4.3     1.7     1.4     4.1     3.2     0.0     0.4     1.0
Delay (s)                  56.9     21.1     90.1    56.0    30.3    26.0    45.2    45.0    37.4    45.9    49.3
Level of Service              E        C        F       E       C       C       D       D       D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  42.8                     29.8                    44.9                    48.2
Approach LOS                           D                        C                       D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     38.2       HCM Level of Service                   D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           69.2%        ICU Level of Service                  C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                    Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 12
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd                                                    2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.97             1.00    0.97           1.00    0.96           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      4947             1770    4927           3433    3381           1770    3429
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      4947             1770    4927           3433    3381           1770    3429
Volume (vph)               110       720     160      200    1380    360     450     520    220     340     380    100
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            110       720     160      200    1380    360     450     520    220     340     380    100
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        32       0        0      42      0       0      43      0       0      21      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      110       848        0     200    1698       0    450     697       0    340     459       0
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)       7.0      33.4             15.1 41.5             18.5 23.0               22.5 27.0
Effective Green, g (s)      7.0      33.4             15.1 41.5             18.5 23.0               22.5 27.0
Actuated g/C Ratio         0.06      0.30             0.14 0.38             0.17 0.21               0.20 0.25
Clearance Time (s)          4.0       4.0              4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0       3.0              3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         113      1502              243 1859              577   707               362   842
v/s Ratio Prot             0.06      0.17            c0.11 c0.34            0.13 c0.21             c0.19 c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                 0.97      0.56             0.82    0.91           0.78    0.99           0.94    0.54
Uniform Delay, d1         51.4      32.2             46.2    32.5           43.8    43.3           43.1    36.1
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     75.7       1.5             19.7     8.4            6.6    30.1           31.6     0.7
Delay (s)                127.2      33.7             65.8    40.9           50.4    73.5           74.7    36.9
Level of Service             F         C                E       D              D       E              E       D
Approach Delay (s)                  44.1                     43.5                   64.8                   52.6
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      E                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     50.2       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           94.4%        ICU Level of Service                  F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 13
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Avenue                                                    2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00     0.95           0.91     0.91    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.92           1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5058             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           1610     3256    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5058             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           1610     3256    1583
Volume (vph)               290       810       30       40   1310     400       80       70     80    380        40    470
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            290       810       30       40   1310     400       80       70     80    380        40    470
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         2       0        0       0    203        0       73      0       0        0    390
Lane Group Flow (vph)      290       838        0       40   1310     197       80       77      0    190      230       80
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                8       8               4       4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     14.0       67.6             5.6 59.2       59.2     10.3    10.3            20.5    20.5    20.5
Effective Green, g (s)    14.0       67.6             5.6 59.2       59.2     10.3    10.3            20.5    20.5    20.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.12       0.56            0.05 0.49       0.49     0.09    0.09            0.17    0.17    0.17
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0             4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0             3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        207       2849               83 2509       781      152     279             275     556     270
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.16       0.17            0.02 c0.26              c0.05    0.02           c0.12    0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.12                                             0.05
v/c Ratio                 1.40      0.29             0.48    0.52    0.25     0.53    0.28            0.69    0.41    0.30
Uniform Delay, d1         53.0      13.7             55.8    20.7    17.6     52.5    51.4            46.8    44.4    43.5
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    206.9       0.3              4.4     0.8     0.8      3.3     0.5             7.3     0.5     0.6
Delay (s)                259.9      14.0             60.1    21.5    18.4     55.8    51.9            54.1    44.9    44.1
Level of Service             F         B                E       C       B        E       D               D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  77.1                     21.7                     53.2                    46.4
Approach LOS                           E                        C                        D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     44.7       HCM Level of Service                   D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.67
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           69.7%        ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                      Page 14
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                       Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande Drive                                               2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900 1900     1900    1900 1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         0.91    1.00     1.00    0.91    1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00     1.00    0.85 1.00     0.89
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         5085    1583     1770    5085    1583 1770     1863    1583 1770     1653
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00 0.70     1.00    1.00 0.74     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         5085    1583     1770    5085    1583 1313     1863    1583 1386     1653
Volume (vph)            110          910     220      170    1370     140  300        20    130    70       20     60
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         110          910     220      170    1370     140  300        20    130    70       20     60
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0    104         0       0      64    0        0      99    0       46      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   110          910     116      170    1370       76 300        20      31   70       34      0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot           Perm Perm             Perm Perm
Protected Phases           7           4                 3      8                     2                     6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8      2              2      6
Actuated Green, G (s)   11.9         57.8    57.8     14.2 60.1      60.1   26.0   26.0    26.0   26.0   26.0
Effective Green, g (s)  11.9         57.8    57.8     14.2 60.1      60.1   26.0   26.0    26.0   26.0   26.0
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.11         0.53    0.53     0.13 0.55      0.55   0.24   0.24    0.24   0.24   0.24
Clearance Time (s)       4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0    4.0    4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0          3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      191         2672     832      228 2778       865    310    440     374    328    391
v/s Ratio Prot          0.06         0.18            c0.10 c0.27                   0.01                  0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.07                    0.05 c0.23            0.02   0.05
v/c Ratio               0.58        0.34     0.14    0.75    0.49    0.09 0.97     0.05    0.08   0.21   0.09
Uniform Delay, d1       46.7        15.1     13.4    46.2    15.5    11.9 41.6     32.4    32.7   33.8   32.7
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.2         0.3      0.3    12.4     0.6     0.2 41.9      0.0     0.1    0.3    0.1
Delay (s)               50.8        15.4     13.7    58.6    16.1    12.1 83.5     32.5    32.8   34.1   32.8
Level of Service           D           B        B       E       B       B     F       C       C      C      C
Approach Delay (s)                  18.3                     20.1                  66.6                  33.4
Approach LOS                           B                        C                     E                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     26.0       HCM Level of Service                C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.63
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           65.9%        ICU Level of Service                C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                 Page 15
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
16: Country Hills Drive & Hillcrest Avenue                                            2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    0.92           1.00    0.97           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1723           1770    3447           1770    3519
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1723           1770    3447           1770    3519
Volume (vph)              70           40      50     110       60     60    100     710    150       80    740      30
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           70           40      50     110       60     60    100     710    150       80    740      30
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0      46        0      50      0       0      16      0       0       3      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     70           40       4     110       70      0    100     844       0      80    767       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7           4                 3      8               5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)    5.6         5.8      5.8      8.1   8.3              7.9 42.9              5.4     40.4
Effective Green, g (s)   5.6         5.8      5.8      8.1   8.3              7.9 42.9              5.4     40.4
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07        0.07     0.07     0.10 0.11              0.10 0.55             0.07     0.52
Clearance Time (s)       4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0   4.0              4.0   4.0             4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0   3.0              3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      127         138      117      183   183              179 1891              122     1818
v/s Ratio Prot          0.04        0.02             c0.06 c0.04            c0.06 c0.24            0.05     0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.00
v/c Ratio               0.55        0.29     0.03    0.60    0.38           0.56    0.45           0.66    0.42
Uniform Delay, d1       35.1        34.3     33.6    33.5    32.6           33.5    10.6           35.5    11.7
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    5.1         1.2      0.1     5.5     1.3            3.7     0.8           12.0     0.7
Delay (s)               40.2        35.4     33.7    39.0    33.9           37.2    11.3           47.5    12.4
Level of Service           D           D        C       D       C              D       B              D       B
Approach Delay (s)                  37.0                     36.3                   14.0                   15.7
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     18.7       HCM Level of Service                 B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.43
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     78.2       Sum of lost time (s)                8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.6%        ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 16
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
17: Laurel Road & Tree Line Way                                                      2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                     Free                  Stop                   Stop
Grade                                 0%                      0%                    0%                     0%
Volume (veh/h)               10     1234        5      10     916     20     12       0      32     40       0      20
Peak Hour Factor           1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Hourly flow rate (vph)       10     1234        5      10     916     20     12       0      32     40       0      20
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                        None                   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                 988                     1304
pX, platoon unblocked      0.96                       0.79                  0.81    0.81   0.79    0.81    0.81   0.96
vC, conflicting volume     936                       1239                  1754    2212    620    1615    2205    468
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         895                       1041                  1560    2124    261    1388    2114    409
tC, single (s)              4.1                        4.1                   7.5     6.5    6.9     7.5     6.5    6.9
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                        2.2                  3.5      4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0    3.3
p0 queue free %             99                         98                   79      100     95     48      100     96
cM capacity (veh/h)        726                        527                   58       39    586     76       39    570
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3           NB 1    NB 2    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                10       823      416    10 611  325             12      32      40     20
Volume Left                 10          0        0   10    0    0            12       0      40      0
Volume Right                  0         0        5    0    0   20             0      32       0     20
cSH                        726      1700     1700  527 1700 1700             58     586      76    570
Volume to Capacity        0.01       0.48     0.24 0.02 0.36 0.19          0.21    0.05    0.52   0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1         0        0    1    0    0            17       4      55      3
Control Delay (s)         10.0        0.0      0.0 12.0  0.0  0.0          82.4    11.5    95.1   11.5
Lane LOS                      B                       B                       F       B       F      B
Approach Delay (s)          0.1                     0.1                    30.8            67.3
Approach LOS                                                                  D               F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  2.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization           49.8%        ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                           15




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                  Page 17
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
18: Laurel Road & Hillcrest Avenue                                                     2025 With Project AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.92             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.96           1.00    0.98
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1709             1770    1863    1583    1770    3388           1770    3474
Flt Permitted              0.67      1.00             0.51    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1250      1709              945    1863    1583    1770    3388           1770    3474
Volume (vph)               170         90    110      260     100     210       90    900    360     320     860    120
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            170         90    110      260     100     210       90    900    360     320     860    120
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        38       0        0       0    150        0      34      0       0       8      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      170       162        0     260     100       60      90   1226       0    320     972       0
Turn Type                 Perm                       Perm            Perm     Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                       4                        8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases              4                          8              8
Actuated Green, G (s)      34.1     34.1              34.1   34.1    34.1    10.4 50.6               23.3    63.5
Effective Green, g (s)     34.1     34.1              34.1   34.1    34.1    10.4 50.6               23.3    63.5
Actuated g/C Ratio         0.28     0.28              0.28   0.28    0.28    0.09 0.42               0.19    0.53
Clearance Time (s)          4.0      4.0               4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0               4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         355      486               269    529     450     153 1429                344    1838
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.09                     0.05            0.05 c0.36             c0.18    0.28
v/s Ratio Perm             0.14                      c0.28           0.04
v/c Ratio                  0.48     0.33              0.97   0.19    0.13    0.59    0.86            0.93   0.53
Uniform Delay, d1          35.6     34.0              42.4   32.5    31.9    52.7    31.4            47.6   18.5
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.0      0.4              45.2    0.2     0.1     5.7     6.9            31.1    1.1
Delay (s)                  36.6     34.4              87.6   32.7    32.1    58.4    38.3            78.7   19.6
Level of Service              D        C                 F      C       C       E       D               E      B
Approach Delay (s)                  35.4                     57.5                    39.6                   34.1
Approach LOS                           D                        E                       D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     40.0       HCM Level of Service                  D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.91
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           93.3%        ICU Level of Service                   F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                    Page 18
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
1: Laurel Road & Canada Valley                                                 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0               4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.95              1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Frt                        0.97              1.00    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3432              1770    3539    1770    1583
Flt Permitted              1.00              0.95    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3432              1770    3539    1770    1583
Volume (vph)               590      150      490     850       40    320
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            590      150      490     850       40    320
RTOR Reduction (vph)         21        0        0       0       0    259
Lane Group Flow (vph)      719         0     490     850       40      61
Turn Type                                    Prot                   Perm
Protected Phases              4                 3      8       2
Permitted Phases                                                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     33.2              35.8     73.0   19.0     19.0
Effective Green, g (s)    33.2              35.8     73.0   19.0     19.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.33              0.36     0.73   0.19     0.19
Clearance Time (s)         4.0               4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0               3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       1139               634     2583    336      301
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.21             c0.28     0.24   0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                                      c0.04
v/c Ratio                  0.63             0.77    0.33    0.12     0.20
Uniform Delay, d1          28.2             28.5     4.8    33.6     34.1
Progression Factor         1.00             0.64    0.39    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       2.7              5.0     0.3     0.7      1.5
Delay (s)                  30.9             23.3     2.1    34.3     35.6
Level of Service              C                C       A       C        D
Approach Delay (s)         30.9                      9.9    35.5
Approach LOS                  C                        A       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                    20.0       HCM Level of Service          C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                 0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                   100.0       Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          61.6%        ICU Level of Service           B
Analysis Period (min)                          15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                          Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                            Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
2: Laurel Road & Country Hills Drive                                           2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.95              1.00    0.95           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.98              1.00    0.99           1.00    0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 3461              1770    3497           1770    1599           1770    1676
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 3461              1770    3497           1770    1599           1770    1676
Volume (vph)              60  690     120      310    1170    100       90      10   170       50      20     40
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           60  690     120      310    1170    100       90      10   170       50      20     40
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0       0        0       5      0       0       0      0       0      35      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     60  810        0     310    1265       0      90    180       0      50      25      0
Turn Type               Prot                   Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5     2                1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)    7.1 36.7             26.8 56.4                7.7 15.7              4.8    12.8
Effective Green, g (s)   7.1 36.7             26.8 56.4                7.7 15.7              4.8    12.8
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07 0.37             0.27 0.56               0.08 0.16             0.05    0.13
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      126 1270              474 1972                136   251               85    215
v/s Ratio Prot          0.03 c0.23            0.18 c0.36             c0.05 c0.11            0.03    0.01
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio               0.48 0.64             0.65    0.64           0.66    0.72           0.59    0.12
Uniform Delay, d1       44.7 26.2             32.5    14.9           44.9    40.0           46.6    38.6
Progression Factor      0.91 1.45             1.01    0.96           1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    2.3   2.0             2.6     1.3           11.5     9.4           10.0     0.2
Delay (s)               43.0 39.9             35.5    15.5           56.3    49.4           56.6    38.8
Level of Service           D     D               D       B              E       D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)            40.1                    19.4                   51.7                   46.9
Approach LOS                     D                       B                      D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              29.9       HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.65
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             100.0       Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    67.8%        ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 2
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                      Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
3: Laurel Road & SB SR4 Bypass                                                     2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900   1900     1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900    1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)                   4.0                     4.0                                 4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.95                    0.95                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Frt                                  0.99                    1.00                                1.00    1.00   0.85
Flt Protected                        1.00                    1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3516                    3539                                1681    1681   1583
Flt Permitted                        1.00                    1.00                                0.95    0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3516                    3539                                1681    1681   1583
Volume (vph)               0         870      40      0      990       0      0      0      0    720        0   590
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00   1.00   1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0         870      40      0      990       0      0      0      0    720        0   590
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0      0      0         0      0      0      0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0         910       0      0      990       0      0      0      0    360     360    590
Turn Type                                                                                       Perm         custom
Protected Phases                       2                        6                                          4       4
Permitted Phases                                                                                   4               4
Actuated Green, G (s)                49.5                   49.5                                42.5    42.5 42.5
Effective Green, g (s)               49.5                   49.5                                42.5    42.5 42.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.50                   0.50                                0.42    0.42 0.42
Clearance Time (s)                    4.0                    4.0                                 4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0                    3.0                                 3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  1740                   1752                                 714     714     673
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.26                  c0.28                                               c0.37
v/s Ratio Perm                                                                                  0.21    0.21
v/c Ratio                           0.52                     0.57                               0.50    0.50 0.88
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.2                     17.7                               21.0    21.0 26.3
Progression Factor                  0.14                     0.34                               1.00    1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9                      1.2                                0.6     0.6 12.3
Delay (s)                            3.2                      7.3                               21.6    21.6 38.7
Level of Service                       A                        A                                  C       C       D
Approach Delay (s)                   3.2                      7.3                  0.0                  29.3
Approach LOS                           A                        A                    A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  15.1           HCM Level of Service             B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 100.0           Sum of lost time (s)            8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization       102.7%            ICU Level of Service             G
Analysis Period (min)                        15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                               Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                 Page 3
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                           Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
4: Laurel Road & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                                     2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900 1900        1900   1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0                       4.0     4.0              4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.95                      0.95    1.00             1.00   1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00                      1.00    0.85             1.00   0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00                      1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      3539                      3539    1583             1770   1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00                      1.00    1.00             0.95   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      3539                      3539    1583             1770   1583
Volume (vph)               220      1370        0       0     1010     730    90           0   210       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            220      1370        0       0     1010     730    90           0   210       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       0       0         0       0    0           0      0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      220      1370        0       0     1010     730     0          90   210       0      0      0
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm Perm             custom
Protected Phases              5        2                          6                       8       8
Permitted Phases                                                          6        8              8
Actuated Green, G (s)     16.0       76.1                      56.1    56.1            15.9 15.9
Effective Green, g (s)    16.0       76.1                      56.1    56.1            15.9 15.9
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.16       0.76                      0.56    0.56            0.16 0.16
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0                       4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0                       3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        283       2693                      1985     888             281     252
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.12       0.39                      0.29                           c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.46            0.05
v/c Ratio                  0.78     0.51                       0.51    0.82            0.32 0.83
Uniform Delay, d1          40.3      4.7                       13.5    17.9            37.3 40.8
Progression Factor         0.92     0.87                       0.12    0.18            1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      11.4      0.6                        0.6     5.7             0.7 20.4
Delay (s)                  48.5      4.7                        2.2     8.9            37.9 61.2
Level of Service              D        A                          A       A               D       E
Approach Delay (s)                  10.7                        5.0                    54.2                   0.0
Approach LOS                           B                          A                       D                     A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     11.6          HCM Level of Service                 B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0          Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           72.4%           ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                       Page 4
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
5: Laurel Road & Slatten Ranch Road                                       2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00       0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00       0.97           1.00    0.92           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583 1770       4950           3433    3264           1770    3427
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583 1770       4950           3433    3264           1770    3427
Volume (vph)            100 1190    290   260    1020    220     610     270    290     230     410    110
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         100 1190    290   260    1020    220     610     270    290     230     410    110
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0     0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   100 1190    290   260    1240       0    610     560       0    230     520       0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           5     2           1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)    9.6 29.4 29.4 16.8       36.6           20.3   22.5           15.3 17.5
Effective Green, g (s)   9.6 29.4 29.4 16.8       36.6           20.3   22.5           15.3 17.5
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.10 0.29 0.29 0.17       0.37           0.20   0.22           0.15 0.18
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0            4.0    4.0            4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0            3.0    3.0            3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      170 1495    465   297    1812            697    734            271   600
v/s Ratio Prot          0.06 c0.23       c0.15    0.25          c0.18   0.17           0.13 c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.18
v/c Ratio               0.59 0.80 0.62 0.88      0.68            0.88   0.76           0.85    0.87
Uniform Delay, d1       43.3 32.5 30.5 40.6      26.8            38.6   36.3           41.2    40.1
Progression Factor      0.90 0.90 0.88 0.72      0.35            1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.4   3.8   5.3 20.4     1.8            11.8    4.7           21.2    12.5
Delay (s)               43.4 33.0 32.1 49.6      11.0            50.5   41.0           62.4    52.6
Level of Service           D     C     C     D      B               D      D              E       D
Approach Delay (s)            33.5               17.7                   45.9                   55.6
Approach LOS                     C                  B                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             35.0   HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.84
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            100.0   Sum of lost time (s)               16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   83.0%    ICU Level of Service                  E
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                      Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                        Page 5
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                      Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
6: Laurel Road & Live Oak Avenue                                                   2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR       SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     0.91             1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.99             1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     5055             1770    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00             0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     5055             1770    1583
Volume (vph)               340      1370     1210      50      130     290
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            340      1370     1210      50      130     290
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0        5      0         0    175
Lane Group Flow (vph)      340      1370     1255       0      130     115
Turn Type                  Prot                                       Perm
Protected Phases              7        4        8                 6
Permitted Phases                                                         6
Actuated Green, G (s)     15.3       52.3 33.0                39.7    39.7
Effective Green, g (s)    15.3       52.3 33.0                39.7    39.7
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.15       0.52 0.33                0.40    0.40
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0   4.0                4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0   3.0                3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        525       2659 1668                 703     628
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.10       0.27 c0.25              c0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        0.07
v/c Ratio                  0.65     0.52     0.75              0.18   0.18
Uniform Delay, d1          39.8     15.6     29.9              19.6   19.6
Progression Factor         1.22     1.05     0.86              1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.6      0.1      1.7               0.6    0.6
Delay (s)                  50.0     16.4     27.2              20.2   20.2
Level of Service              D        B        C                 C      C
Approach Delay (s)                  23.1     27.2              20.2
Approach LOS                           C        C                 C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     24.3          HCM Level of Service          C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0          Sum of lost time (s)        12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.4%           ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                              Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                Page 6
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
7: Laurel Road & Empire Avenue                                                         2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3463           1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      3539    1583     1770    3539    1583    1770    3463           1770    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               430       910     160        50    720       50    110     360      60      60    300     430
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            430       910     160        50    720       50    110     360      60      60    300     430
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      78        0       0      30       0      14      0       0       0    303
Lane Group Flow (vph)      430       910       82       50    720       20    110     406       0      60    300     127
Turn Type                  Prot             Perm      Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              7        4                 3      8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4                       8                                              6
Actuated Green, G (s)     16.9 51.2          51.2     6.3     40.6   40.6      9.9 19.7              6.8    16.6    16.6
Effective Green, g (s)    16.9 51.2          51.2     6.3     40.6   40.6      9.9 19.7              6.8    16.6    16.6
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.17 0.51          0.51    0.06     0.41   0.41     0.10 0.20             0.07    0.17    0.17
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0          3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0   3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        580 1812           810     112     1437    643      175   682             120     587     263
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.13 c0.26                 0.03     0.20           c0.06 c0.12            0.03    0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.05                    0.01                                           0.08
v/c Ratio                  0.74     0.50     0.10    0.45    0.50    0.03    0.63    0.59           0.50    0.51    0.48
Uniform Delay, d1          39.5     16.0     12.6    45.2    22.1    17.9    43.3    36.5           45.0    38.0    37.8
Progression Factor         0.69     1.33     2.57    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       4.8      0.9      0.2     2.8     1.3     0.1     6.9     1.4            3.3     0.8     1.4
Delay (s)                  31.9     22.3     32.5    48.0    23.4    18.0    50.2    37.9           48.2    38.8    39.2
Level of Service              C        C        C       D       C       B       D       D              D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  26.1                     24.6                    40.5                   39.7
Approach LOS                           C                        C                       D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     30.8       HCM Level of Service                  C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           62.6%        ICU Level of Service                   B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 7
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                           2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       0.97 0.91 1.00 0.97       0.91    1.00    1.00    0.91    0.91    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00       1.00    0.85    1.00    0.86    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      3433 5085 1583 3433       5085    1583    1770    2933    1441    1770    1863    1583
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      3433 5085 1583 3433       5085    1583    1770    2933    1441    1770    1863    1583
Volume (vph)            130 1710      60  530    1090     500     220       20    360     250       20    120
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         130 1710      60  530    1090     500     220       20    360     250       20    120
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0    32     0       0    224        0    167     167        0       0    110
Lane Group Flow (vph)   130 1710      28  530    1090     276     220       33      13    250       20      10
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases           5     2           1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                       2                    6                       8                       4
Actuated Green, G (s)    8.0 46.6 46.6 22.1       60.7   60.7    16.2   7.9       7.9     17.4    9.1     9.1
Effective Green, g (s)   8.0 46.6 46.6 22.1       60.7   60.7    16.2   7.9       7.9     17.4    9.1     9.1
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07 0.42 0.42 0.20       0.55   0.55    0.15 0.07       0.07     0.16   0.08    0.08
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      250 2154    671   690    2806    874     261   211       103      280    154     131
v/s Ratio Prot          0.04 c0.34       c0.15    0.21           0.12 c0.01              c0.14   0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                 0.17                    0.01                    0.01
v/c Ratio               0.52 0.79 0.04 0.77      0.39    0.32    0.84    0.16    0.13     0.89   0.13    0.08
Uniform Delay, d1       49.1 27.5 18.6 41.5      14.1    13.4    45.7    47.9    47.8     45.4   46.8    46.6
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00 0.68      1.06    5.44    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.9   3.1   0.1   4.3    0.3     0.8    21.2     0.3     0.6     27.9    0.4     0.2
Delay (s)               51.1 30.6 18.7 32.6      15.2    73.6    66.8    48.3    48.4     73.3   47.2    46.8
Level of Service           D     C     B     C      B       E       E       D       D        E      D       D
Approach Delay (s)            31.7               33.3                    55.1                    63.8
Approach LOS                     C                  C                       E                       E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             37.7   HCM Level of Service                   D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.75
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   79.8%    ICU Level of Service                  D
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                          Page 8
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                           Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
9: Lone Tree Way & SB SR4 Bypass                                        2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL          WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900       1900    1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0                                 4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.91 1.00 0.97      0.91                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                           1.00 0.85 1.00      1.00                                1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00 1.00 0.95      1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            5085 1583 3433      5085                                1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00 1.00 0.95      1.00                                0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            5085 1583 3433      5085                                1681     1681    1583
Volume (vph)               0 2060   380   380    1880       0      0      0      0    860         0    240
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0 2060   380   380    1880       0      0      0      0    860         0    240
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0     0       0      0      0      0      0       0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0 2060   380   380    1880       0      0      0      0    430      430     240
Turn Type                          Perm   Prot                                        Split           Perm
Protected Phases                 2           1      6                                    4       4
Permitted Phases                       2                                                                 4
Actuated Green, G (s)         51.9 51.9 15.0      70.9                                31.1    31.1    31.1
Effective Green, g (s)        51.9 51.9 15.0      70.9                                31.1    31.1    31.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.47 0.47 0.14      0.64                                0.28    0.28    0.28
Clearance Time (s)             4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0                                 4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0                                 3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           2399   747   468    3278                                 475     475     448
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.41       c0.11    0.37                               c0.26    0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.24                                                              0.15
v/c Ratio                     0.86 0.51 0.81     0.57                                 0.91    0.91    0.54
Uniform Delay, d1             25.8 20.2 46.1     11.0                                 38.0    38.0    33.3
Progression Factor            0.65 0.51 0.95     0.71                                 1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          3.0   1.7   9.1    0.6                                 20.5    20.5     1.2
Delay (s)                     19.7 12.1 52.9      8.5                                 58.6    58.6    34.6
Level of Service                 B     B     D      A                                    E       E       C
Approach Delay (s)            18.5               15.9                   0.0                   53.3
Approach LOS                     B                  B                     A                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             24.1   HCM Level of Service               C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.87
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)             12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   84.5%    ICU Level of Service                E
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                       Page 9
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
10: Lone Tree Way & SR4 Bypass NB Ramps                                       2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900 1900      1900    1900    1900   1900   1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0  4.0       4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor             0.91 1.00       0.97    0.91    1.00 0.97      1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85 1.00      1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                 1.00 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            5085 1583       3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Flt Permitted                 1.00 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00 0.95      1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            5085 1583       3433    5085    1583 3433      1863    1583
Volume (vph)               0 2640   280         60   1710     730  550         50    340       0      0      0
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            0 2640   280         60   1710     730  550         50    340       0      0      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0     0         0       0       0    0         0       0      0      0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      0 2640   280         60   1710     730  550         50    340       0      0      0
Turn Type                          Perm       Prot           Perm Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                 2               1      6                      8
Permitted Phases                       2                         6      8               8
Actuated Green, G (s)         67.7 67.7       3.2     74.9    74.9   27.1   27.1     27.1
Effective Green, g (s)        67.7 67.7       3.2     74.9    74.9   27.1   27.1     27.1
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.62 0.62      0.03     0.68    0.68   0.25   0.25     0.25
Clearance Time (s)             4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0   3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)           3130   974      100     3462    1078    846    459      390
v/s Ratio Prot               c0.52           0.02     0.34                  0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.18                     c0.46   0.16           c0.21
v/c Ratio                     0.84 0.29      0.60    0.49     0.68   0.65   0.11     0.87
Uniform Delay, d1             16.9   9.9     52.8     8.4     10.4   37.2   32.1     39.8
Progression Factor            0.29 0.27      1.12    1.78     1.64   1.00   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2          1.5   0.4      3.8     0.2      1.3    1.8    0.1     18.8
Delay (s)                      6.4   3.0     63.1    15.2     18.4   39.0   32.2     58.5
Level of Service                 A     A        E       B        B      D      C        E
Approach Delay (s)             6.1                   17.3                   45.7                    0.0
Approach LOS                     A                      B                      D                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             16.3       HCM Level of Service                  B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   78.7%        ICU Level of Service                  D
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                            Page 10
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
11: Lone Tree Way & Slatten Ranch Road                                                2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91     1.00    1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95    1.00
Frt                        1.00      1.00     0.85    1.00    0.99           1.00    0.97           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5085     1583    1770    5056           3433    3445           3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5085     1583    1770    5056           3433    3445           3433    3539    1583
Volume (vph)               470      1990      530       50   1510      60    400     370      80      80    550     570
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            470      1990      530       50   1510      60    400     370      80      80    550     570
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       57       0       4      0       0      16      0       0       0    264
Lane Group Flow (vph)      470      1990      473       50   1566       0    400     434       0      80    550     306
Turn Type                  Prot             pm+ov     Prot                   Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2         3       1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                 2                                                                    4
Actuated Green, G (s)     22.8 53.0           67.3    6.2 36.4               14.3   30.6            4.2    20.5    20.5
Effective Green, g (s)    22.8 53.0           67.3    6.2 36.4               14.3   30.6            4.2    20.5    20.5
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.21 0.48           0.61   0.06 0.33               0.13   0.28           0.04    0.19    0.19
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0           4.0    4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0           3.0    3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0            3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        712 2450            969    100 1673                446    958            131     660     295
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.14 c0.39          0.06   0.03 c0.31             c0.12   0.13           0.02    0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                                0.24                                                              c0.19
v/c Ratio                  0.66     0.81      0.49   0.50    0.94            0.90   0.45           0.61    0.83 1.04
Uniform Delay, d1          40.0     24.3      11.8   50.4    35.7            47.1   32.8           52.1    43.1 44.8
Progression Factor         0.75     0.42      0.33   0.79    1.23            1.00   1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       1.2      1.7       0.2    3.4    10.1            20.2    0.3            8.2     8.9 62.8
Delay (s)                  31.4     11.8       4.1   43.1    54.1            67.3   33.1           60.3    52.0 107.5
Level of Service              C        B         A      D       D               E      C              E       D     F
Approach Delay (s)                  13.5                     53.8                   49.2                   78.9
Approach LOS                           B                        D                      D                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     39.6       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.88
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           87.2%        ICU Level of Service                  E
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 11
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                 Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
12: Lone Tree Way & Empire Avenue                                              2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR          WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00        1.00    0.91    1.00    0.97    1.00    1.00    0.97    0.95
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85        1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.92
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583        1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3274
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00        0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583        1770    5085    1583    3433    1863    1583    3433    3274
Volume (vph)            160 1390    600         20    960     160     440     120       40    310     220    220
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         160 1390    600         20    960     160     440     120       40    310     220    220
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0  280          0       0      89       0       0      36       0    187       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   160 1390    320         20    960       71    440     120        4    310     253       0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm       Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm     Prot
Protected Phases           5     2               1      6                3      8                7      4
Permitted Phases                       2                        6                       8
Actuated Green, G (s)   20.4 58.7 58.7        3.1 41.4       41.4     19.2   12.0    12.0    20.2 13.0
Effective Green, g (s)  20.4 58.7 58.7        3.1 41.4       41.4     19.2   12.0    12.0    20.2 13.0
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.19 0.53 0.53       0.03 0.38       0.38     0.17   0.11    0.11    0.18 0.12
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0      4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0      3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      328 2714    845        50 1914       596      599    203     173     630   387
v/s Ratio Prot          0.09 c0.27           0.01 c0.19              c0.13   0.06            0.09 c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.20                     0.04                    0.00
v/c Ratio               0.49 0.51 0.38       0.40    0.50    0.12     0.73   0.59    0.03    0.49    0.65
Uniform Delay, d1       40.1 16.5 15.0       52.5    26.4    22.4     43.0   46.7    43.8    40.3    46.4
Progression Factor      0.52 0.21 0.90       1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    0.7   0.4   0.8      5.2     0.9     0.4      4.7    4.6     0.1     0.6     3.9
Delay (s)               21.6   3.9 14.3      57.7    27.3    22.8     47.6   51.2    43.8    40.9    50.3
Level of Service           C     A     B        E       C       C        D      D       D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)             8.1                   27.2                    48.1                    46.4
Approach LOS                     A                      C                       D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             24.2       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   69.2%        ICU Level of Service                  C
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 12
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
13: Lone Tree Way & Deer Valley Rd                                                    2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         3.5       4.0              3.5     4.0            3.5     4.0            3.5     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91           0.97    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    0.98           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5014             1770    5009           3433    3374           1770    3419
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5014             1770    5009           3433    3374           1770    3419
Volume (vph)               320      1850     190      190    1440    160     260     400    180     310     510    150
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            320      1850     190      190    1440    160     260     400    180     310     510    150
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0        11       0        0      12      0       0      47      0       0      25      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      320      2029        0     190    1588       0    260     533       0    310     635       0
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6               3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases
Actuated Green, G (s)     20.0 47.0                  12.0     39.0          10.0 18.0               17.0   25.0
Effective Green, g (s)    20.5 47.0                  12.5     39.0          10.5 18.0               17.5   25.0
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19 0.43                  0.11     0.35          0.10 0.16               0.16   0.23
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0                  4.0      4.0           4.0   4.0               4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0           3.0   3.0               3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        330 2142                   201     1776           328   552               282    777
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.18 c0.40                 0.11     0.32          0.08 c0.16             c0.18   0.19
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio                  0.97     0.95             0.95    0.89           0.79    0.97            1.10   0.82
Uniform Delay, d1          44.4     30.3             48.4    33.5           48.7    45.7            46.2   40.3
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      40.9     10.5             47.6     7.4           12.3    29.5            82.8    6.7
Delay (s)                  85.3     40.8             96.1    40.9           61.0    75.2           129.1   47.0
Level of Service              F        D                F       D              E       E               F      D
Approach Delay (s)                  46.8                     46.8                   70.8                   73.2
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      E                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     54.5       HCM Level of Service                 D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.97
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    110.0       Sum of lost time (s)               11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           97.8%        ICU Level of Service                  F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 13
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Avenue                                                    2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00     0.95           0.91     0.91    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.93           1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      5051             1770    5085    1583    1770     3294           1610     3274    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      5051             1770    5085    1583    1770     3294           1610     3274    1583
Volume (vph)               710      1680       80     100    1210     480       50       70     60    580      120     450
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            710      1680       80     100    1210     480       50       70     60    580      120     450
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         3       0        0       0    335        0       56      0       0        0    352
Lane Group Flow (vph)      710      1757        0     100    1210     145       50       74      0    290      410       98
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                8       8               4       4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     33.0       60.4             8.8 36.2       36.2      8.7     8.7            26.1    26.1    26.1
Effective Green, g (s)    33.0       60.4             8.8 36.2       36.2      8.7     8.7            26.1    26.1    26.1
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.28       0.50            0.07 0.30       0.30     0.07    0.07            0.22    0.22    0.22
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0             4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0             3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        487       2542             130 1534        478      128     239             350     712     344
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.40       0.35            0.06 c0.24              c0.03    0.02           c0.18    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.09                                             0.06
v/c Ratio                 1.46      0.69             0.77    0.79    0.30     0.39    0.31            0.83    0.58    0.28
Uniform Delay, d1         43.5      22.7             54.6    38.4    32.2     53.1    52.8            44.8    42.0    39.2
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    217.2       1.6             23.5     4.2     1.6      2.0     0.7            14.8     1.1     0.5
Delay (s)                260.7      24.3             78.1    42.6    33.8     55.1    53.6            59.7    43.1    39.6
Level of Service             F         C                E       D       C        E       D               E       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  92.2                     42.2                     54.0                    45.9
Approach LOS                           F                        D                        D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     65.5       HCM Level of Service                   E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.98
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           96.0%        ICU Level of Service                    F
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                      Page 14
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
15: Lone Tree Way & Vista Grande Drive                                2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR NBL                 NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900           1900    1900 1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0  4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00
Frt                     1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00 1.00 0.85 1.00           1.00    0.85 1.00     0.88
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95           1.00    1.00 0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 5085 1583 1770 5085 1583 1770           1863    1583 1770     1637
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 1.00 0.95 1.00 1.00 0.53           1.00    1.00 0.72     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 5085 1583 1770 5085 1583        985     1863    1583 1349     1637
Volume (vph)            190 1710    390   300 1240      90  320        50    220    70       40   170
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00           1.00    1.00 1.00     1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         190 1710    390   300 1240      90  320        50    220    70       40   170
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0     0  179      0     0    53     0        0    147     0     113       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   190 1710    211   300 1240      37  320        50      73   70       97      0
Turn Type               Prot       Perm   Prot       Perm Perm              Perm Perm
Protected Phases           7     4           3     8                   2                     6
Permitted Phases                       4                 8     2               2      6
Actuated Green, G (s)   16.1 41.5 41.5 19.9 45.3 45.3 36.6          36.6    36.6   36.6   36.6
Effective Green, g (s)  16.1 41.5 41.5 19.9 45.3 45.3 36.6          36.6    36.6   36.6   36.6
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.15 0.38 0.38 0.18 0.41 0.41 0.33          0.33    0.33   0.33   0.33
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      259 1918    597   320 2094    652   328     620     527    449    545
v/s Ratio Prot          0.11 c0.34       c0.17 c0.24                0.03                  0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.13              0.02 c0.32            0.05   0.05
v/c Ratio               0.73 0.89 0.35 0.94 0.59 0.06 0.98          0.08    0.14   0.16   0.18
Uniform Delay, d1       44.9 32.1 24.6 44.4 25.2 19.5 36.3          25.2    25.7   25.8   26.0
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00          1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2   10.3   6.8   1.6 33.9    1.2   0.2 42.7      0.1     0.1    0.2    0.2
Delay (s)               55.2 38.9 26.2 78.4 26.4 19.7 79.0          25.2    25.8   26.0   26.2
Level of Service           E     D     C     E     C     B     E       C       C      C      C
Approach Delay (s)            38.1              35.6                54.6                  26.1
Approach LOS                     D                 D                   D                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             38.6   HCM Level of Service             D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.96
Actuated Cycle Length (s)            110.0   Sum of lost time (s)           16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization   93.3%    ICU Level of Service              F
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                  Page 15
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                        Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
16: Country Hills Drive & Hillcrest Avenue                                            2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL         EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900         1900    1900     1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00         1.00    0.85     1.00    0.90           1.00    0.99           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1683           1770    3506           1770    3497
Flt Permitted           0.95         1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770         1863    1583     1770    1683           1770    3506           1770    3497
Volume (vph)              70           20    100      120       50     90    100    1060      70    110     920      80
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00         1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)           70           20    100      120       50     90    100    1060      70    110     920      80
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0            0      90        0      78      0       0       4      0       0       6      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)     70           20      10     120       62      0    100    1126       0    110     994       0
Turn Type               Prot                Perm      Prot                   Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7           4                 3      8               5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)    6.1         8.4      8.4      8.7 11.0              8.4 42.2                7.9    41.7
Effective Green, g (s)   6.1         8.4      8.4      8.7 11.0              8.4 42.2                7.9    41.7
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.07        0.10     0.10     0.10 0.13             0.10 0.51               0.09    0.50
Clearance Time (s)       4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0   4.0             4.0   4.0               4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0   3.0             3.0   3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      130         188      160      185   223             179 1778                168    1753
v/s Ratio Prot          0.04        0.01             c0.07 c0.04            0.06 c0.32             c0.06    0.28
v/s Ratio Perm                               0.01
v/c Ratio               0.54        0.11     0.06    0.65    0.28           0.56    0.63            0.65   0.57
Uniform Delay, d1       37.2        34.0     33.8    35.8    32.5           35.6    14.9            36.3   14.5
Progression Factor      1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.2         0.3      0.2     7.6     0.7            3.7     1.7             8.8    1.3
Delay (s)               41.4        34.2     34.0    43.4    33.2           39.4    16.6            45.2   15.8
Level of Service           D           C        C       D       C              D       B               D      B
Approach Delay (s)                  36.8                     37.9                   18.5                   18.7
Approach LOS                           D                        D                      B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     21.6       HCM Level of Service                 C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     83.2       Sum of lost time (s)               12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           63.0%        ICU Level of Service                  B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                   Page 16
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
17: Laurel Road & Tree Line Way                                                      2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                    Free                   Stop                   Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%                    0%                     0%
Volume (veh/h)               20      890       14      35   1322      50      8       0      21     25       0      20
Peak Hour Factor           1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Hourly flow rate (vph)       20      890       14      35   1322      50      8       0      21     25       0      20
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                        None                   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                 988                    1304
pX, platoon unblocked      0.78                      0.91                   0.83    0.83   0.91    0.83    0.83   0.78
vC, conflicting volume    1372                       904                   1688    2379    452    1923    2361    686
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol        1200                       790                   1286    2117    291    1569    2095    326
tC, single (s)              4.1                       4.1                    7.5     6.5    6.9     7.5     6.5    6.9
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                       2.2                   3.5      4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0    3.3
p0 queue free %             96                        95                    91      100     97     55      100     96
cM capacity (veh/h)        453                       748                    91       38    639     56       39    526
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3           NB 1    NB 2 SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                20       593      311    35 881  491              8      21   25        20
Volume Left                 20          0        0   35    0    0             8       0    25        0
Volume Right                  0         0       14    0    0   50             0      21     0       20
cSH                        453      1700     1700  748 1700 1700             91     639   56       526
Volume to Capacity        0.04       0.35     0.18 0.05 0.52 0.29          0.09    0.03 0.45      0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)        3         0        0    4    0    0             7       3    42        3
Control Delay (s)         13.3        0.0      0.0 10.0  0.0  0.0          48.5    10.8 113.0     12.1
Lane LOS                      B                       B                       E       B     F        B
Approach Delay (s)          0.3                     0.2                    21.2          68.1
Approach LOS                                                                  C             F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  1.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization           52.9%       ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                           15




EER                                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                  Page 17
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
18: Laurel Road & Hillcrest Avenue                                              2025 With Project PM Peak Hour



Movement                EBL EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)      4.0   4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00              1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                     1.00 0.91              1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.97           1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1770 1701              1770    1863    1583    1770    3417           1770    3436
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00              0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1770 1701              1770    1863    1583    1770    3417           1770    3436
Volume (vph)            140     80    110      350     120     250       90    970    290     290     910    220
Peak-hour factor, PHF   1.00 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)         140     80    110      350     120     250       90    970    290     290     910    220
RTOR Reduction (vph)       0    46       0        0       0    200        0      21      0       0      15      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)   140   145        0     350     120       50      90   1239       0    290    1115       0
Turn Type               Prot                   Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases           7     4                3      8                5      2               1      6
Permitted Phases                                                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)   14.0 15.0              23.0   24.0    24.0     8.7 49.0               17.0    57.3
Effective Green, g (s)  14.0 15.0              23.0   24.0    24.0     8.7 49.0               17.0    57.3
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.12 0.12              0.19   0.20    0.20    0.07 0.41               0.14    0.48
Clearance Time (s)       4.0   4.0              4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0               4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)    3.0   3.0              3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0   3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)      207   213              339    373     317     128 1395                251    1641
v/s Ratio Prot          0.08 c0.08            c0.20   0.06            0.05 c0.36             c0.16    0.32
v/s Ratio Perm                                                0.03
v/c Ratio               0.68 0.68              1.03   0.32    0.16    0.70    0.89            1.16   0.68
Uniform Delay, d1       50.8 50.2              48.5   41.0    39.7    54.4    33.0            51.5   24.2
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00              1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    8.4   8.3             57.5    0.5     0.2    16.1     8.7           105.3    2.3
Delay (s)               59.3 58.5             106.0   41.5    39.9    70.4    41.7           156.8   26.5
Level of Service           E     E                F      D       D       E       D               F      C
Approach Delay (s)            58.8                    72.3                    43.6                   53.1
Approach LOS                     E                       E                       D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay              53.9       HCM Level of Service                  D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio           0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization    95.8%        ICU Level of Service                   F
Analysis Period (min)                    15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                             Page 18
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Mitigation
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Drive                                          2025 With Project AM Peak Hour Mitigated



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900    1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0            4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00     0.95           0.97     1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00     0.92           1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5058             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           3433     1863    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00           0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5058             1770    5085    1583    1770     3256           3433     1863    1583
Volume (vph)               290       810       30       40   1310     400       80       70     80    380        40    470
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            290       810       30       40   1310     400       80       70     80    380        40    470
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         2       0        0       0    190        0       73      0       0        0    383
Lane Group Flow (vph)      290       838        0       40   1310     210       80       77      0    380        40      87
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Split                   Split           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                8       8               4       4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                                4
Actuated Green, G (s)     11.0       68.4             5.6 63.0       63.0     10.3    10.3            19.7    19.7    19.7
Effective Green, g (s)    11.0       68.4             5.6 63.0       63.0     10.3    10.3            19.7    19.7    19.7
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.09       0.57            0.05 0.52       0.52     0.09    0.09            0.16    0.16    0.16
Clearance Time (s)         4.0        4.0             4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0             4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0        3.0             3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        315       2883               83 2670       831      152     279             564     306     260
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.08       0.17            0.02 c0.26              c0.05    0.02           c0.11    0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.13                                             0.06
v/c Ratio                  0.92     0.29             0.48    0.49    0.25     0.53    0.28            0.67    0.13    0.34
Uniform Delay, d1          54.1     13.3             55.8    18.2    15.6     52.5    51.4            47.1    42.8    44.4
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      31.0      0.3              4.4     0.6     0.7      3.3     0.5             3.2     0.2     0.8
Delay (s)                  85.0     13.6             60.1    18.9    16.3     55.8    51.9            50.3    43.0    45.1
Level of Service              F        B                E       B       B        E       D               D       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  31.9                     19.2                     53.2                    47.2
Approach LOS                           C                        B                        D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     31.0       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.57
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           68.8%        ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                     Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                       Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Antioch Davidon Homes TIA
14: Lone Tree Way & Hillcrest Drive                                          2025 With Project PM Peak Hour Mitigated



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0            4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor          0.97      0.91             1.00    0.91    1.00    1.00    0.95           0.97    1.00    1.00
Frt                        1.00      0.99             1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.93           1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         3433      5051             1770    5085    1583    1770    3294           3433    1863    1583
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         3433      5051             1770    5085    1583    1770    3294           3433    1863    1583
Volume (vph)               710      1680       80     100    1210     480       50      70     60    580     120     450
Peak-hour factor, PHF      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)            710      1680       80     100    1210     480       50      70     60    580     120     450
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         3       0        0       0    267        0      56      0       0       0    353
Lane Group Flow (vph)      710      1757        0     100    1210     213       50      74      0    580     120       97
Turn Type                  Prot                       Prot           Perm     Prot                   Prot           Perm
Protected Phases              5        2                 1      6                3      8               7      4
Permitted Phases                                                        6                                              4
Actuated Green, G (s)     23.0 69.3                    7.0    53.3   53.3     6.3     8.7            19.0 21.4      21.4
Effective Green, g (s)    23.0 69.3                    7.0    53.3   53.3     6.3     8.7            19.0 21.4      21.4
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19 0.58                   0.06    0.44   0.44    0.05    0.07            0.16 0.18      0.18
Clearance Time (s)         4.0   4.0                   4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0             4.0   4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0   3.0                   3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0             3.0   3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        658 2917                    103    2259    703       93    239             544   332      282
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.21 c0.35                  0.06    0.24           0.03    0.02           c0.17 c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                                                       0.13                                           0.06
v/c Ratio                 1.08      0.60              0.97   0.54    0.30    0.54    0.31            1.07   0.36    0.34
Uniform Delay, d1         48.5      16.4              56.4   24.3    21.4    55.4    52.8            50.5   43.3    43.1
Progression Factor        1.00      1.00              1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00   1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     58.3       0.9              79.0    0.9     1.1     5.9     0.7            57.4    0.7     0.7
Delay (s)                106.8      17.4             135.4   25.2    22.5    61.3    53.6           107.9   44.0    43.9
Level of Service             F         B                 F      C       C       E       D               F      D       D
Approach Delay (s)                  43.1                     30.7                    55.7                   76.2
Approach LOS                           D                        C                       E                      E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     46.3       HCM Level of Service                  D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                 8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           77.4%        ICU Level of Service                  D
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




EER                                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
11/12/2008                                                                                                     Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
         APPENDIX C:

CCTALOS Calculation worksheets
Existing
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.382
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          37                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1         1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   14     51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   14     51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     40   16     57   211   34     38   32 829       58   184 1117     187
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    40   16     57   211   34     38   32 829       58   184 1117     187
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     57     0    0     32    0     0     22     0     0    187
RTOR Vol:       40   16      0   211   34      6   32 829       36   184 1117       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    40   16      0   211   34      6   32 829       36   184 1117       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1500 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.01 0.00 0.13 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.17 0.02 0.06 0.23 0.00
Crit Volume:         16          211               32                      372
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.513
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          47                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   319    7    392    0 634      446    80 1111      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   319    7    392    0 634      446    80 1111      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   319    7    392    0 634      446    80 1111      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   319    7    392    0 634      446    80 1111      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3063    70 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.09 0.23 0.00 0.12 0.26 0.03 0.22 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           392               446    40
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.308
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          33                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 7:30 - 8:30 AM
Base Vol:      383   29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 383     29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    430   33     89     0    0     0     0 744      180     9 754      275
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 430     33     89     0    0     0     0 744      180     9 754      275
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      9     0    0     0     0     0    180     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      430   33     80     0    0     0     0 744        0     9 754      275
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 430     33     80     0    0     0     0 744        0     9 754      275
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.86 0.14 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2907 242 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.15 0.13 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.00 0.01 0.15 0.16
Crit Volume: 231                        0           0                             275
Crit Moves: ****                                 ****                           ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                      Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                   Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.461
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          42                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     43   52     212    47   39     27   82 538      101    60 930       32
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    43   52     212    47   39     27   82 538      101    60 930       32
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0     27    0     0     24     0     0     26
RTOR Vol:       43   52     212    47   39      0   82 538       77    60 930        7
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    43   52     212    47   39      0   82 538       77    60 930        7
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.03 0.13 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.03 0.11 0.05 0.04 0.28 0.00
Crit Volume:                212         39          41                      465
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                      Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.483
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          44                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     99   53     46   117    86    201  187 554      29    90 709       89
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    99   53     46   117    86    201  187 554      29    90 709       89
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     46     0     0      0    0    0     29     0     0     64
RTOR Vol:       99   53      0   117    86    201  187 554       0    90 709       25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    99   53      0   117    86    201  187 554       0    90 709       25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.04 0.05 0.12 0.11 0.11 0.00 0.05 0.21 0.01
Crit Volume:    49                            201  187                     354
Crit Moves: ****                            **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.707
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          78                Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 PM
Base Vol:      279 245     111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 279 245       111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    313 275     125   397 513      19   39 724      176   208 936      208
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 313 275       125   397 513      19   39 724      176   208 936      208
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0    172     0     0    208
RTOR Vol:      313 275     125   397 513      19   39 724        4   208 936        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 313 275       125   397 513      19   39 724        4   208 936        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.38 0.62 1.00 1.93 0.07 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 2271 1029 1650 3182         118 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.10 0.12 0.12 0.24 0.16 0.16 0.02 0.22 0.00 0.13 0.28 0.00
Crit Volume:        200          397                    362          208
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.440
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          41                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     40   59     14   310   94    299  197 550       20    27 958      178
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    40   59     14   310   94    299  197 550       20    27 958      178
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0    197    0     0     20     0     0    171
RTOR Vol:       40   59     14   310   94    102  197 550        0    27 958        7
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    40   59     14   310   94    102  197 550        0    27 958        7
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.61 0.39 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2650      650 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.02 0.02 0.10 0.06 0.06 0.12 0.17 0.00 0.02 0.19 0.00
Crit Volume:    40               155              197                      319
Crit Moves: ****                ****             ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                       Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                   Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                     CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.322
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           27                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 8:00 - 9:00 PM
Base Vol:       39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:     42    15    132    26    17     44   22 745      32    63 1040      40
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 745      32    63 1040      40
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       42    15    132    26    17     44   22 745      32    63 1040      40
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 745      32    63 1040      40
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.10 0.90 1.00 0.28 0.72 1.00 2.88 0.12 1.00 2.89 0.11
Final Sat.: 1720 176 1544 1720 483 1237 1720 4946               214 1720 4970      190
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.09 0.09 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.15 0.15 0.04 0.21 0.21
Crit Volume:         147           26                22                     360
Crit Moves:         ****         ****              ****                    ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.444
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          41                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
User Adj:    0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:     70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.81 0.19 1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 0.35 0.65 1.00 0.44 0.56
Final Sat.: 1650 2988      312 1650 3115     185 1650 578 1073 1650 731          919
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.10 0.10 0.04 0.14 0.14 0.03 0.13 0.13 0.05 0.13 0.13
Crit Volume:    70                    233               220                      210
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****                    ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                     Ex AM CCTALOS
Existing AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:24                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.344
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          28                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:     75 418      28    83 424      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    75 418      28    83 424      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     83
RTOR Vol:       75 418      28    83 424      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    75 418      28    83 424      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.65 0.35 1.00 0.33 0.67 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 2838         602 1720 573 1147 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.12 0.02 0.05 0.15 0.15 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.03 0.04 0.05
Crit Volume:    75                    257         169                             91
Crit Moves: ****                     ****        ****                          ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.544
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          50                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1         1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     88   57    180   182   58     23   56 1410      57   343 981      264
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    88   57    180   182   58     23   56 1410      57   343 981      264
RTOR Reduct:     0    0    180     0    0     23    0     0     48     0     0    182
RTOR Vol:       88   57      0   182   58      0   56 1410       9   343 981       81
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    88   57      0   182   58      0   56 1410       9   343 981       81
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1500 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.11 0.04 0.00 0.03 0.28 0.01 0.11 0.20 0.05
Crit Volume:         57          182                    470          171
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.585
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          55                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:30 - 5:30 PM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   438   11    380    0 1231     569   103 1214      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   438   11    380    0 1231     569   103 1214      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   438   11    380    0 1231     569   103 1214      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   438   11    380    0 1231     569   103 1214      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.95 0.05 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3054    81 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.13 0.22 0.00 0.24 0.33 0.03 0.24 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           380               569    52
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.481
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          44                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:      437   43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 437     43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:    480   47    151     0    0     0     0 1543     290    23 913      392
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 480     47    151     0    0     0     0 1543     290    23 913      392
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     23     0    0     0     0     0    264     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      480   47    127     0    0     0     0 1543      26    23 913      392
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 480     47    127     0    0     0     0 1543      26    23 913      392
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.82 0.18 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2847 308 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.17 0.15 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 0.02 0.01 0.18 0.23
Crit Volume: 264                        0               514           23
Crit Moves: ****                                       ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                      Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                   Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.487
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          44                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:     54   81     178   121   71    107  231 949      272   170 854       59
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    54   81     178   121   71    107  231 949      272   170 854       59
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    107    0     0     30     0     0     59
RTOR Vol:       54   81     178   121   71      0  231 949      242   170 854        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    54   81     178   121   71      0  231 949      242   170 854        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.05 0.11 0.04 0.04 0.00 0.08 0.19 0.15 0.10 0.26 0.00
Crit Volume:                178         71         115                      427
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                      Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.497
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          45                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     78   47     37   236 117      180  235 774     114    54 716      132
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    78   47     37   236 117      180  235 774     114    54 716      132
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     37     0     0      0    0    0     43     0     0    130
RTOR Vol:       78   47      0   236 117      180  235 774      72    54 716        2
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    78   47      0   236 117      180  235 774      72    54 716        2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.08 0.07 0.11 0.14 0.16 0.04 0.03 0.22 0.00
Crit Volume:         47                       180  235                     358
Crit Moves:        ****                     **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.609
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          58                Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:      192 365     168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 192 365       168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:    198 376     173   173 197      14   90 804      152   156 512      159
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 198 376       173   173 197      14   90 804      152   156 512      159
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0    109     0     0    159
RTOR Vol:      198 376     173   173 197      14   90 804       43   156 512        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 198 376       173   173 197      14   90 804       43   156 512        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.37 0.63 1.00 1.86 0.14 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 2260 1040 1650 3075         225 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.07 0.17 0.17 0.10 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.24 0.03 0.09 0.16 0.00
Crit Volume:        275          173                    402          156
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                      Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                   Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.544
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          50                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0          1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:15 - 5:15 PM
Base Vol:       17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88
PHF Volume:     19   99      30   481   88    110  149 1040      25    49 818      260
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    19   99      30   481   88    110  149 1040      25    49 818      260
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    110    0     0     19     0     0    260
RTOR Vol:       19   99      30   481   88      0  149 1040       6    49 818        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19   99      30   481   88      0  149 1040       6    49 818        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.54 0.46 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2541       759 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.04 0.04 0.16 0.05 0.00 0.09 0.32 0.00 0.03 0.17 0.00
Crit Volume:                 64   240                    520           49
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                       Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                   Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                     CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.437
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           33                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:       35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:     36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1322     45   125 960       25
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1322     45   125 960       25
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1322     45   125 960       25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1322     45   125 960       25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.08 0.92 1.00 0.31 0.69 1.00 2.90 0.10 1.00 2.92 0.08
Final Sat.: 1720 139 1581 1720 534 1186 1720 4989               171 1720 5030      130
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.26 0.26 0.07 0.19 0.19
Crit Volume:         128           43                           456   125
Crit Moves:         ****         ****                          **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.315
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          33                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
User Adj:    0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Adj:     0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:     73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.70 0.30 1.00 1.71 0.29 1.00 0.38 0.62 1.00 0.53 0.47
Final Sat.: 1650 2810      490 1650 2826     474 1650 633 1017 1650 868          782
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.10 0.10 0.05 0.13 0.13 0.03 0.08 0.08 0.02 0.06 0.06
Crit Volume:    73                    220                      133         95
Crit Moves: ****                     ****                    ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                     Ex PM CCTALOS
Existing PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 14:29:49                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.219
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          24                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
User Adj:    0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0    133
RTOR Vol:       27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.80 0.20 1.00 0.24 0.76 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 3102         338 1720 415 1305 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.09 0.02 0.09 0.15 0.15 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.00
Crit Volume:        151          162                     29          35
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
Near-Term No Project
                                   Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.454
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          42                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected          Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1          1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   14      51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   14      51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
Added Vol:      40    0     133     0    0      0    0 225       13    45 114        0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    76   14     184   190   31     34   29 971       65   211 1119     168
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     84   16     204   211   34     38   32 1079      72   234 1243     187
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    84   16     204   211   34     38   32 1079      72   234 1243     187
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     129     0    0     32    0     0     46     0     0    187
RTOR Vol:       84   16      76   211   34      6   32 1079      26   234 1243       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    84   16      76   211   34      6   32 1079      26   234 1243       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 0.34 1.66 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 564 2487 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.03 0.13 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.22 0.02 0.08 0.25 0.00
Crit Volume:                 46   211                    360          117
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.602
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          57                Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0     57    0 277       82     0 102       0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Initial Fut:     0    0      0   287    6    410    0 848      483    72 1102      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   319    7    456    0 942      537    80 1224      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   319    7    456    0 942      537    80 1224      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   319    7    456    0 942      537    80 1224      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   319    7    456    0 942      537    80 1224      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3063    70 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.09 0.26 0.00 0.18 0.31 0.03 0.24 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           456               537    40
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.338
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          34                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 7:30 - 8:30 AM
Base Vol:      383   29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 383     29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
Added Vol:      35    0      0     0    0     0     0 130      147     0    67      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 418     29     79     0    0     0     0 792      307     8 738      245
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    470   33     89     0    0     0     0 890      345     9 829      275
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 470     33     89     0    0     0     0 890      345     9 829      275
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      9     0    0     0     0     0    258     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      470   33     80     0    0     0     0 890       87     9 829      275
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 470     33     80     0    0     0     0 890       87     9 829      275
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.87 0.13 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2924 223 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.16 0.15 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.17 0.05 0.01 0.16 0.16
Crit Volume: 251                        0               297            9
Crit Moves: ****                                       ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                   Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.484
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          44                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
Added Vol:       0    0       0     0    0      0    0 130        0     0    67      0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    39   47     191    42   35     24   74 614       91    54 904       29
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     43   52     212    47   39     27   82 682      101    60 1004      32
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    43   52     212    47   39     27   82 682      101    60 1004      32
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0     27    0     0     24     0     0     26
RTOR Vol:       43   52     212    47   39      0   82 682       77    60 1004       7
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    43   52     212    47   39      0   82 682       77    60 1004       7
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.03 0.13 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.03 0.14 0.05 0.04 0.30 0.00
Crit Volume:                212         39          41                      502
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.573
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          53                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0     0     42   79   51      0     0    25      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    89   48     41   105    77    223  247 550      26    81 663       80
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     99   53     46   117    86    248  274 611      29    90 737       89
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    99   53     46   117    86    248  274 611      29    90 737       89
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     46     0     0      0    0    0     29     0     0     64
RTOR Vol:       99   53      0   117    86    248  274 611       0    90 737       25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    99   53      0   117    86    248  274 611       0    90 737       25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.04 0.05 0.15 0.17 0.12 0.00 0.05 0.22 0.01
Crit Volume:    49                            248  274                     368
Crit Moves: ****                            **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.773
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:        100                 Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 PM
Base Vol:      279 245     111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 279 245       111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
Added Vol:      19    0     63     0    0      0    0    45      7    43    88      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 298 245       174   353 457      17   35 689      164   228 921      185
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    335 275     196   397 513      19   39 774      184   256 1035     208
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 335 275       196   397 513      19   39 774      184   256 1035     208
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0    184     0     0    208
RTOR Vol:      335 275     196   397 513      19   39 774        0   256 1035       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 335 275       196   397 513      19   39 774        0   256 1035       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.17 0.83 1.00 1.93 0.07 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1930 1370 1650 3182         118 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.11 0.14 0.14 0.24 0.16 0.16 0.02 0.23 0.00 0.16 0.31 0.00
Crit Volume:               235   397                    387          256
Crit Moves:               **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.535
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          49                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
Added Vol:       0    0      0   126    0     60   41    66      0     0    90     53
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    36   53     13   405   85    329  218 561       18    24 952      213
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     40   59     14   450   94    366  242 623       20    27 1058     237
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    40   59     14   450   94    366  242 623       20    27 1058     237
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0    242    0     0     20     0     0    237
RTOR Vol:       40   59     14   450   94    123  242 623        0    27 1058       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    40   59     14   450   94    123  242 623        0    27 1058       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.61 0.39 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2650      650 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.02 0.02 0.15 0.06 0.07 0.15 0.19 0.00 0.02 0.21 0.00
Crit Volume:    40               225              242                      353
Crit Moves: ****                ****             ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                   Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.354
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           29                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 8:00 - 9:00 PM
Base Vol:       39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
Added Vol:       0     0      0     0     0      0    0 191       0     0 152        0
PasserByVol:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    39    14    123    24    16     41   20 884      30    59 1119      37
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:     42    15    132    26    17     44   22 951      32    63 1203      40
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 951      32    63 1203      40
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       42    15    132    26    17     44   22 951      32    63 1203      40
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 951      32    63 1203      40
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.10 0.90 1.00 0.28 0.72 1.00 2.90 0.10 1.00 2.90 0.10
Final Sat.: 1720 176 1544 1720 483 1237 1720 4991               169 1720 4995      165
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.09 0.09 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.19 0.19 0.04 0.24 0.24
Crit Volume:         147           26                22                            414
Crit Moves:         ****         ****              ****                          ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.500
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          46                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Added Vol:       0   87      0     0 184       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    70 384      31    63 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
User Adj:    0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:     70 384      31    63 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    70 384      31    63 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       70 384      31    63 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    70 384      31    63 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.85 0.15 1.00 1.92 0.08 1.00 0.35 0.65 1.00 0.44 0.56
Final Sat.: 1650 3053      247 1650 3168     132 1650 578 1073 1650 731          919
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.13 0.13 0.04 0.20 0.20 0.03 0.13 0.13 0.05 0.13 0.13
Crit Volume:    70                    325               220                      210
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****                    ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                  Near-Term AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:25:26                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.404
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          31                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
Added Vol:       0   87      0     0 184       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    67 459      25    74 561      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:     75 516      28    83 630      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    75 516      28    83 630      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     83
RTOR Vol:       75 516      28    83 630      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    75 516      28    83 630      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.75 0.25 1.00 0.33 0.67 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 3011         429 1720 573 1147 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.15 0.02 0.05 0.21 0.21 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.03 0.04 0.05
Crit Volume:    75                           360  169                             91
Crit Moves: ****                           **** ****                           ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.646
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          64                Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1         1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
Added Vol:      26    0     89     0    0      0    0 232       45   151 314        0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 110     55    262   175   56     22   54 1586     100   480 1256     253
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    115   57    273   182   58     23   56 1652     104   500 1308     264
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 115     57    273   182   58     23   56 1652     104   500 1308     264
RTOR Reduct:     0    0    273     0    0     23    0     0     63     0     0    182
RTOR Vol:      115   57      0   182   58      0   56 1652      41   500 1308      81
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 115     57      0   182   58      0   56 1652      41   500 1308      81
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1500 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.03 0.00 0.11 0.04 0.00 0.03 0.33 0.02 0.17 0.26 0.05
Crit Volume:         57          182                    551          250
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.737
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          87                Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:30 - 5:30 PM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0    178    0 250       71     0 287       0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Initial Fut:     0    0      0   416   10    539    0 1419     612    98 1440      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   438   11    567    0 1494     644   103 1516      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   438   11    567    0 1494     644   103 1516      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   438   11    567    0 1494     644   103 1516      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   438   11    567    0 1494     644   103 1516      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.95 0.05 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3054    81 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.13 0.33 0.00 0.29 0.37 0.03 0.29 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           567               644    52
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.547
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          50                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:      437   43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 437     43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
Added Vol:     104    0      0     0    0     0     0 136      114     0 183        0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 541     43    137     0    0     0     0 1540     378    21 1014     357
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:    595   47    151     0    0     0     0 1692     415    23 1114     392
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 595     47    151     0    0     0     0 1692     415    23 1114     392
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     23     0    0     0     0     0    327     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      595   47    127     0    0     0     0 1692      88    23 1114     392
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 595     47    127     0    0     0     0 1692      88    23 1114     392
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.85 0.15 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2897 253 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.21 0.19 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.33 0.05 0.01 0.22 0.23
Crit Volume: 321                        0               564           23
Crit Moves: ****                                       ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                   Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.546
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          50                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
Added Vol:       0    0       0     0    0      0    0 136        0     0 183        0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    51   76     167   114   67    101  217 1028     256   160 986       55
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:     54   81     178   121   71    107  231 1094     272   170 1049      59
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    54   81     178   121   71    107  231 1094     272   170 1049      59
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    107    0     0     30     0     0     59
RTOR Vol:       54   81     178   121   71      0  231 1094     242   170 1049       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    54   81     178   121   71      0  231 1094     242   170 1049       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.05 0.11 0.04 0.04 0.00 0.08 0.22 0.15 0.10 0.32 0.00
Crit Volume:                178         71         115                      524
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.641
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          64                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0     0    113   86   50      0     0    70      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    76   46     36   231 115      289  316 809     112    53 772      129
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     78   47     37   236 117      295  322 826     114    54 788      132
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    78   47     37   236 117      295  322 826     114    54 788      132
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     37     0     0      0    0    0     43     0     0    130
RTOR Vol:       78   47      0   236 117      295  322 826      72    54 788        2
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    78   47      0   236 117      295  322 826      72    54 788        2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.08 0.07 0.18 0.20 0.17 0.04 0.03 0.24 0.00
Crit Volume:         47                       295  322                     394
Crit Moves:        ****                     **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                   Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.725
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          83                 Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected          Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:      192 365      168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 192 365        168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
Added Vol:      13    0      73     0    0      0    0 123       22    87    91      0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 205 365        241   168 191      14   87 903      169   238 588      154
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:    211 376      248   173 197      14   90 931      174   245 606      159
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 211 376        248   173 197      14   90 931      174   245 606      159
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0    116     0     0    159
RTOR Vol:      211 376      248   173 197      14   90 931       58   245 606        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 211 376        248   173 197      14   90 931       58   245 606        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.20 0.80 1.00 1.86 0.14 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1988 1312 1650 3075          225 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.07 0.19 0.19 0.10 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.28 0.04 0.15 0.18 0.00
Crit Volume:                312   173                    465          245
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                   Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.632
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          62                 Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0          1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:15 - 5:15 PM
Base Vol:       17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
Added Vol:       0    0       0   128    0     56  101 114        0     0 148      140
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    17   87      26   551   77    153  232 1029      22    43 868      369
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88
PHF Volume:     19   99      30   626   88    174  264 1169      25    49 986      419
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    19   99      30   626   88    174  264 1169      25    49 986      419
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    174    0     0     19     0     0    344
RTOR Vol:       19   99      30   626   88      0  264 1169       6    49 986       75
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19   99      30   626   88      0  264 1169       6    49 986       75
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.54 0.46 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2541       759 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.04 0.04 0.21 0.05 0.00 0.16 0.35 0.00 0.03 0.20 0.05
Crit Volume:                 64   313                    585           49
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                   Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.489
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           36                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:       35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
Added Vol:       0     0      0     0     0      0    0 260       0     0 291        0
PasserByVol:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1542     44   121 1222      24
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:     36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1590     45   125 1260      25
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1590     45   125 1260      25
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1590     45   125 1260      25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1590     45   125 1260      25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.08 0.92 1.00 0.31 0.69 1.00 2.92 0.08 1.00 2.94 0.06
Final Sat.: 1720 139 1581 1720 534 1186 1720 5017               143 1720 5061       99
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.32 0.32 0.07 0.25 0.25
Crit Volume:         128           43                           545   125
Crit Moves:         ****         ****                          **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.363
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          36                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Added Vol:       0 233       0     0 167       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    73 514      49    89 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
User Adj:    0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Adj:     0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:     73 514      49    89 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    73 514      49    89 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       73 514      49    89 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    73 514      49    89 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.83 0.17 1.00 1.79 0.21 1.00 0.38 0.62 1.00 0.53 0.47
Final Sat.: 1650 3013      287 1650 2957     343 1650 633 1017 1650 868          782
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.17 0.17 0.05 0.18 0.18 0.03 0.08 0.08 0.02 0.06 0.06
Crit Volume:        282           89                           133         95
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                  Near-Term PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:50                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.287
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          26                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Added Vol:       0 233       0     0 167       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    27 535      39   162 626      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
User Adj:    0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     27 535      39   162 626      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    27 535      39   162 626      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0    133
RTOR Vol:       27 535      39   162 626      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    27 535      39   162 626      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.85 0.15 1.00 0.24 0.76 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 3186         254 1720 415 1305 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.16 0.02 0.09 0.20 0.20 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.00
Crit Volume:        267          162                     29          35
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
Near-Term With Project
                                 Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.586
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          55                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected          Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1          1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   14      51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   14      51   190   31     34   29 746       52   166 1005     168
Added Vol:      40    0     133   196    0     60   20 225       13    45 114       65
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    76   14     184   386   31     94   49 971       65   211 1119     233
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     84   16     204   429   34    104   54 1079      72   234 1243     259
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    84   16     204   429   34    104   54 1079      72   234 1243     259
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     129     0    0     54    0     0     46     0     0    259
RTOR Vol:       84   16      76   429   34     50   54 1079      26   234 1243       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    84   16      76   429   34     50   54 1079      26   234 1243       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 0.34 1.66 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 564 2487 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.03 0.26 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.22 0.02 0.08 0.25 0.00
Crit Volume:                 46   429                    360          117
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.648
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          65                Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   287    6    353    0 571      401    72 1000      0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0     82    0 427      127     0 142       0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Initial Fut:     0    0      0   287    6    435    0 998      528    72 1142      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   319    7    483    0 1109     587    80 1269      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   319    7    483    0 1109     587    80 1269      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   319    7    483    0 1109     587    80 1269      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   319    7    483    0 1109     587    80 1269      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3063    70 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.09 0.28 0.00 0.21 0.34 0.03 0.25 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           483               587    40
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.360
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          36                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 7:30 - 8:30 AM
Base Vol:      383   29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 383     29     79     0    0     0     0 662      160     8 671      245
Added Vol:      50    0      0     0    0     0     0 205      222     0    92      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 433     29     79     0    0     0     0 867      382     8 763      245
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    487   33     89     0    0     0     0 974      429     9 857      275
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 487     33     89     0    0     0     0 974      429     9 857      275
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      9     0    0     0     0     0    268     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      487   33     80     0    0     0     0 974      162     9 857      275
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 487     33     80     0    0     0     0 974      162     9 857      275
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.87 0.13 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2931 216 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.17 0.15 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.19 0.09 0.01 0.17 0.16
Crit Volume: 260                        0               325            9
Crit Moves: ****                                       ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                 Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.492
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          45                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39   47     191    42   35     24   74 484       91    54 837       29
Added Vol:       0    0       0     0    0      0    0 205        0     0    92      0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    39   47     191    42   35     24   74 689       91    54 929       29
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     43   52     212    47   39     27   82 766      101    60 1032      32
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    43   52     212    47   39     27   82 766      101    60 1032      32
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0     27    0     0     24     0     0     26
RTOR Vol:       43   52     212    47   39      0   82 766       77    60 1032       7
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    43   52     212    47   39      0   82 766       77    60 1032       7
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.03 0.13 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.03 0.15 0.05 0.04 0.31 0.00
Crit Volume:                212         39          41                      516
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.616
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          59                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 7:15 - 8:15 AM
Base Vol:       89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    89   48     41   105    77    181  168 499      26    81 638       80
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0     0     57  124   81      0     0    35      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    89   48     41   105    77    238  292 580      26    81 673       80
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     99   53     46   117    86    264  324 644      29    90 748       89
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    99   53     46   117    86    264  324 644      29    90 748       89
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     46     0     0      0    0    0     29     0     0     64
RTOR Vol:       99   53      0   117    86    264  324 644       0    90 748       25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    99   53      0   117    86    264  324 644       0    90 748       25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.04 0.05 0.16 0.20 0.13 0.00 0.05 0.23 0.01
Crit Volume:    49                            264  324                     374
Crit Moves: ****                            **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.780
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:        103                 Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 PM
Base Vol:      279 245     111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 279 245       111   353 457      17   35 644      157   185 833      185
Added Vol:      19    0     63     0    0      0    0    65      7    43 148        0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 298 245       174   353 457      17   35 709      164   228 981      185
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:    335 275     196   397 513      19   39 797      184   256 1102     208
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 335 275       196   397 513      19   39 797      184   256 1102     208
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0    184     0     0    208
RTOR Vol:      335 275     196   397 513      19   39 797        0   256 1102       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 335 275       196   397 513      19   39 797        0   256 1102       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.17 0.83 1.00 1.93 0.07 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1930 1370 1650 3182         118 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.11 0.14 0.14 0.24 0.16 0.16 0.02 0.24 0.00 0.16 0.33 0.00
Crit Volume:               235   397                    398          256
Crit Moves:               **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.548
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          50                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    36   53     13   279   85    269  177 495       18    24 862      160
Added Vol:       0    0      0   126    0     60   41    86      0     0 150       53
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    36   53     13   405   85    329  218 581       18    24 1012     213
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     40   59     14   450   94    366  242 646       20    27 1124     237
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    40   59     14   450   94    366  242 646       20    27 1124     237
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0    242    0     0     20     0     0    237
RTOR Vol:       40   59     14   450   94    123  242 646        0    27 1124       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    40   59     14   450   94    123  242 646        0    27 1124       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.61 0.39 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2650      650 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.02 0.02 0.15 0.06 0.07 0.15 0.20 0.00 0.02 0.23 0.00
Crit Volume:    40               225              242                      375
Crit Moves: ****                ****             ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                 Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.367
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           29                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 8:00 - 9:00 PM
Base Vol:       39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    39    14    123    24    16     41   20 693      30    59 967       37
Added Vol:       0     0      0     0     0      0    0 211       0     0 212        0
PasserByVol:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    39    14    123    24    16     41   20 904      30    59 1179      37
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:     42    15    132    26    17     44   22 972      32    63 1268      40
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 972      32    63 1268      40
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       42    15    132    26    17     44   22 972      32    63 1268      40
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    42    15    132    26    17     44   22 972      32    63 1268      40
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.10 0.90 1.00 0.28 0.72 1.00 2.90 0.10 1.00 2.91 0.09
Final Sat.: 1720 176 1544 1720 483 1237 1720 4994               166 1720 5003      157
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.09 0.09 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.19 0.19 0.04 0.25 0.25
Crit Volume:         147           26                22                            436
Crit Moves:         ****         ****              ****                          ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.527
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          48                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    70 297      31    63 439      26   44    77    143   84    93    117
Added Vol:       0   87      0    15 184       0    0     0      0    0     0     45
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    70 384      31    78 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    162
User Adj:    0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:     70 384      31    78 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    162
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    70 384      31    78 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    162
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       70 384      31    78 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    162
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    70 384      31    78 623      26   44    77    143   84    93    162
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.85 0.15 1.00 1.92 0.08 1.00 0.35 0.65 1.00 0.36 0.64
Final Sat.: 1650 3053      247 1650 3168     132 1650 578 1073 1650 602 1048
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.13 0.13 0.05 0.20 0.20 0.03 0.13 0.13 0.05 0.15 0.15
Crit Volume:    70                    325               220                      255
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****                    ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                Near-Term PP AM CCTALOS
Near-Term AM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:27:30                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.409
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          31                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 7:45 - 8:45 AM
Base Vol:       67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    67 372      25    74 377      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
Added Vol:       0 132       0     0 199       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    67 504      25    74 576      80  150    50    100   48    67    155
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.89
PHF Volume:     75 566      28    83 647      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    75 566      28    83 647      90  169    56    112   54    75    174
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     83
RTOR Vol:       75 566      28    83 647      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    75 566      28    83 647      90  169    56    112   54    75     91
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.76 0.24 1.00 0.33 0.67 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 3020         420 1720 573 1147 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.16 0.02 0.05 0.21 0.21 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.03 0.04 0.05
Crit Volume:    75                           369  169                             91
Crit Moves: ****                           **** ****                           ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 2-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #8 Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.728
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          84                Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Canada Valley Road                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 0 1 1         1 0 1 0 1        1 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    84   55    173   175   56     22   54 1354      55   329 942      253
Added Vol:      26    0     89   130    0     40   68 232       45   151 314      221
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 110     55    262   305   56     62  122 1586     100   480 1256     474
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    115   57    273   318   58     65  127 1652     104   500 1308     494
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 115     57    273   318   58     65  127 1652     104   500 1308     494
RTOR Reduct:     0    0    273     0    0     65    0     0     63     0     0    318
RTOR Vol:      115   57      0   318   58      0  127 1652      41   500 1308     176
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 115     57      0   318   58      0  127 1652      41   500 1308     176
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1500 1650 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 3000 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.03 0.00 0.19 0.04 0.00 0.08 0.33 0.02 0.17 0.26 0.11
Crit Volume:         57          318                    551          250
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 2
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #9 Lone Tree Way/SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.808
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:        119                 Level Of Service:                     D
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        SB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Lanes:         0 0 0 0 0         1 1 0 0 1        0 0 3 0 1          2 0 3 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:30 - 5:30 PM
Base Vol:        0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0    0      0   416   10    361    0 1169     541    98 1153      0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0    263    0 350      101     0 423       0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Initial Fut:     0    0      0   416   10    624    0 1519     642    98 1576      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95
PHF Volume:      0    0      0   438   11    657    0 1599     676   103 1659      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol:     0    0      0   438   11    657    0 1599     676   103 1659      0
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0     0
RTOR Vol:        0    0      0   438   11    657    0 1599     676   103 1659      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0    0      0   438   11    657    0 1599     676   103 1659      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       0.00 0.00 0.00 1.95 0.05 1.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 0.00
Final Sat.:      0    0      0 3054    81 1720      0 5160 1720 3127 5160          0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.13 0.38 0.00 0.31 0.39 0.03 0.32 0.00
Crit Volume:     0                           657               676    52
Crit Moves:                                ****               **** ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                       Page 3
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #10 Lone Tree Way/NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.575
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          54                Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:        NB SR 4 Bypass Ramps                    Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 1 0 0 1         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 3 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 13 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:      437   43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 437     43    137     0    0     0     0 1404     264    21 831      357
Added Vol:     155    0      0     0    0     0     0 186      164     0 268        0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 592     43    137     0    0     0     0 1590     428    21 1099     357
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:    651   47    151     0    0     0     0 1747     470    23 1208     392
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 651     47    151     0    0     0     0 1747     470    23 1208     392
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     23     0    0     0     0     0    358     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:      651   47    127     0    0     0     0 1747     113    23 1208     392
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 651     47    127     0    0     0     0 1747     113    23 1208     392
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.86 0.14 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 2915 233 1720          0    0     0     0 5160 1720 1720 5160 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.22 0.20 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.34 0.07 0.01 0.23 0.23
Crit Volume: 349                        0               582           23
Crit Moves: ****                                       ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 4
                                 Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #11 Lone Tree Way/Slatten Ranch Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.573
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          53                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Slatten Ranch Road                      Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 0 1        2 0 3 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    51   76     167   114   67    101  217 892      256   160 803       55
Added Vol:       0    0       0     0    0      0    0 186        0     0 268        0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    51   76     167   114   67    101  217 1078     256   160 1071      55
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:     54   81     178   121   71    107  231 1147     272   170 1139      59
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    54   81     178   121   71    107  231 1147     272   170 1139      59
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    107    0     0     30     0     0     59
RTOR Vol:       54   81     178   121   71      0  231 1147     242   170 1139       0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    54   81     178   121   71      0  231 1147     242   170 1139       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 3000 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.05 0.11 0.04 0.04 0.00 0.08 0.23 0.15 0.10 0.35 0.00
Crit Volume:                178         71         115                      570
Crit Moves:                ****       ****        ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 5
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #12 Lone Tree Way/Empire Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.702
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          76                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:            Empire Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase       Split Phase        Protected         Protected
Rights:            Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 0 1         2 0 1 1 0         1 0 3 0 1         1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 22 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    76   46     36   231 115      176  230 759     112    53 702      129
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0     0    164  116   70      0     0 104        0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    76   46     36   231 115      340  346 829     112    53 806      129
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     78   47     37   236 117      347  353 846     114    54 822      132
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    78   47     37   236 117      347  353 846     114    54 822      132
RTOR Reduct:     0    0     37     0     0      0    0    0     43     0     0    130
RTOR Vol:       78   47      0   236 117      347  353 846      72    54 822        2
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    78   47      0   236 117      347  353 846      72    54 822        2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1650 1650 3000 1650 1650 1650 4950 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.03 0.03 0.00 0.08 0.07 0.21 0.21 0.17 0.04 0.03 0.25 0.00
Crit Volume:         47                       347  353                     411
Crit Moves:        ****                     **** ****                     ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,      W.C.
                                       Page 6
                                 Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #13 Lone Tree Way/Deer Valley Road
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.746
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          90                 Level Of Service:                     C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Deer Valley Road                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected          Protected        Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         2 0 1 1 0          1 0 1 1 0        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 2 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:      192 365      168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 192 365        168   168 191      14   87 780      147   151 497      154
Added Vol:      13    0      73     0    0      0    0 191       22    87 131        0
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut: 205 365        241   168 191      14   87 971      169   238 628      154
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:    211 376      248   173 197      14   90 1001     174   245 647      159
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol: 211 376        248   173 197      14   90 1001     174   245 647      159
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0    116     0     0    159
RTOR Vol:      211 376      248   173 197      14   90 1001      58   245 647        0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 211 376        248   173 197      14   90 1001      58   245 647        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       2.00 1.20 0.80 1.00 1.86 0.14 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 3000 1988 1312 1650 3075          225 1650 3300 1650 1650 3300 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.07 0.19 0.19 0.10 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.30 0.04 0.15 0.20 0.00
Crit Volume:                312   173                    501          245
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 7
                                 Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #14 Lone Tree Way/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):            0.655
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):           xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          66                 Level Of Service:                     B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                       Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound       East Bound         West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Split Phase        Split Phase       Protected          Protected
Rights:            Include            Include           Include            Include
Min. Green:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0          1 1 1 0 1        1 0 2 0 1          1 0 3 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:15 - 5:15 PM
Base Vol:       17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    17   87      26   423   77     97  131 915       22    43 720      229
Added Vol:       0    0       0   128    0     56  101 182        0     0 188      140
PasserByVol:     0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    17   87      26   551   77    153  232 1097      22    43 908      369
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88
PHF Volume:     19   99      30   626   88    174  264 1247      25    49 1032     419
Reduct Vol:      0    0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    19   99      30   626   88    174  264 1247      25    49 1032     419
RTOR Reduct:     0    0       0     0    0    174    0     0     19     0     0    344
RTOR Vol:       19   99      30   626   88      0  264 1247       6    49 1032      75
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19   99      30   626   88      0  264 1247       6    49 1032      75
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.54 0.46 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 3.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1650 2541       759 3000 1650 1650 1650 3300 1650 1650 4950 1650
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.04 0.04 0.21 0.05 0.00 0.16 0.38 0.00 0.03 0.21 0.05
Crit Volume:                 64   313                    623           49
Crit Moves:                **** ****                    ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 8
                                 Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                  Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                    Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
                    CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #15 Lone Tree Way/Vista Grande Drive
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.502
Loss Time (sec):          0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):          xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:           37                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Vista Grande Drive                     Lone Tree Way
Approach:       North Bound        South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:           Permitted          Permitted       Protected         Protected
Rights:             Include            Include          Include            Include
Min. Green:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0          1 0 0 1 0         1 0 2 1 0         1 0 2 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 4:45 - 5:45 PM
Base Vol:       35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1282     44   121 931       24
Added Vol:       0     0      0     0     0      0    0 328       0     0 331        0
PasserByVol:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Initial Fut:    35    10    114    42     9     20   18 1610     44   121 1262      24
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:     36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1660     45   125 1301      25
Reduct Vol:      0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1660     45   125 1301      25
RTOR Reduct:     0     0      0     0     0      0    0    0      0     0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1660     45   125 1301      25
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    36    10    118    43     9     21   19 1660     45   125 1301      25
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 0.08 0.92 1.00 0.31 0.69 1.00 2.92 0.08 1.00 2.94 0.06
Final Sat.: 1720 139 1581 1720 534 1186 1720 5023               137 1720 5064       96
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.33 0.33 0.07 0.26 0.26
Crit Volume:         128           43                    568          125
Crit Moves:         ****         ****                   ****         ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,       W.C.
                                       Page 9
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                  Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #16 Country Hills Drive/Hillcrest Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.412
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          39                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                  Country Hills Drive
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 0 1 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    73 281      49    89 376      63   42    51     82   34    50     45
Added Vol:       0 233       0    51 167       0    0     0      0    0     0     30
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    73 514      49   140 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     75
User Adj:    0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Adj:     0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
PHF Volume:     73 514      49   140 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     75
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    73 514      49   140 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     75
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
RTOR Vol:       73 514      49   140 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     75
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    73 514      49   140 543      63   42    51     82   34    50     75
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650 1650
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.83 0.17 1.00 1.79 0.21 1.00 0.38 0.62 1.00 0.40 0.60
Final Sat.: 1650 3013      287 1650 2957     343 1650 633 1017 1650 660          990
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.04 0.17 0.17 0.08 0.18 0.18 0.03 0.08 0.08 0.02 0.08 0.08
Crit Volume:        282          140                           133        125
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 10
                                Near-Term PP PM CCTALOS
Near-Term PM                 Mon Sep 29, 2008 15:55:33                  Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Level Of Service Computation Report
                   CCTALOS Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #18 Laurell/Hillcrest
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.296
Loss Time (sec):         0 (Y+R=4.0 sec) Average Delay (sec/veh):         xxxxxx
Optimal Cycle:          26                Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Hillcrest Avenue                      Laurel Road
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected          Permitted         Permitted
Rights:            Ignore            Include           Include           Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 1         1 0 1 1 0        1 0 0 1 0         1 0 1 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 15 May 2008 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    27 302      39   162 459      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Added Vol:       0 263       0     0 218       0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    27 565      39   162 677      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
User Adj:    0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Adj:     0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98
PHF Volume:     27 565      39   162 677      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    27 565      39   162 677      50   17     7     22   35     9    133
RTOR Reduct:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0    133
RTOR Vol:       27 565      39   162 677      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    27 565      39   162 677      50   17     7     22   35     9      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720 1720
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 1.86 0.14 1.00 0.24 0.76 1.00 1.00 1.00
Final Sat.: 1720 3440 1720 1720 3203         237 1720 415 1305 1720 1720 1720
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.16 0.02 0.09 0.21 0.21 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.00
Crit Volume:        283          162                     29          35
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 7.8.0115 (c) 2007 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to FEHR & PEERS,     W.C.
                                      Page 11
Cumulative No Project
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     1 Canada Valley/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour M
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   953 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 649 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   100 ---   1.1    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.0 ---   238   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    120    0 229                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      229          0 *     1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      120        120       1720     0.0698     0.0698
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1720     0.0581
    THRU (T)      953        953       3440     0.2770
    T + R                   1053       3440     0.3061     0.3061
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       649        649       3440     0.1887
    LEFT (L)      238        238       1720     0.1384     0.1384
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.51
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     2 Country Hills Dr/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            60   30   80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    40 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 ---   30 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   679 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.1<--- 633 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   420 ---   1.1    1.0 1.1 1.1     1.0 ---   62   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    160   20 217                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Country Hills Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      217        217       1650     0.1315
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    T + R                    237       1650     0.1436     0.1436
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    T + R                     90       1650     0.0545
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      420        420       1650     0.2545
    THRU (T)      679        679       3300     0.2058
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    T + R                   1099       3300     0.3330     0.3330
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      633        633       3300     0.1918
    LEFT (L)       62         62       1650     0.0376     0.0376
    T + R                    663       3300     0.2009
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.56
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     3 SR 4 Bypass SB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       2-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           300    0 840
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   914 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 420 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   46 ---   1.1    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      300        300       1800     0.1667
    THRU (T)        0          0       1800     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      840        840       3273     0.2566     0.2566
    T + L                    840       3273     0.2566
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       46         46       1800     0.0256
    THRU (T)      914        914       3600     0.2539
    T + R                    960       3600     0.2667     0.2667
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       420        420       3600     0.1167
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.52
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     4 SR 4 Bypass NB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   140 --- 1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 620 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1615 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)     2.0<--- 565 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    5    0 100                           Urb=N, Rur=B
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1720     0.0581     0.0581
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)        5          5       1720     0.0029
    T + L                      5       1720     0.0029
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1615       1615       3440     0.4695     0.4695
    LEFT (L)      140        140       1720     0.0814
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      620        620       1720     0.3605
    THRU (T)      565        565       3440     0.1642
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.53
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     5 Slatten Ranch/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            40 180 130
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   160 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 320 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   925 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 975 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   630 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    170 250 160                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)      250        250       3300     0.0758
    LEFT (L)      170        170       3000     0.0567
    T + R                    410       3300     0.1242     0.1242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    THRU (T)      180        180       3300     0.0545
    LEFT (L)      130        130       1650     0.0788     0.0788
    T + R                    220       3300     0.0667
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      630        537 *     1650     0.3255     0.3255
    THRU (T)      925        925       4950     0.1869
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      320        320       1650     0.1939
    THRU (T)      975        975       4950     0.1970
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1650     0.1576     0.1576
    T + R                   1295       4950     0.2616
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.69
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     6 Live Oak Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           310    0   60
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   290 --- 2.0    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.1 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   925 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1245 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Live Oak Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      310        150 *     1720     0.0872     0.0872
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1720     0.0349
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)       925        925       5160     0.1793
    LEFT (L)      290        290       3127     0.0927     0.0927
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         90       1720     0.0523
    THRU (T)     1245       1245       5160     0.2413
    T + R                   1335       5160     0.2587     0.2587
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.44
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     7 Empire Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           345 310    40
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   285 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 1.0     1.0 --- 140 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   650 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 850 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   50 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   70   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   140 220    10                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    THRU (T)      220        220       3300     0.0667
    LEFT (L)      140        140       1650     0.0848     0.0848
    T + R                    230       3300     0.0697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      345        188 *     1650     0.1139     0.1139
    THRU (T)      310        310       3300     0.0939
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      650        650       3300     0.1970
    LEFT (L)      285        285       3000     0.0950     0.0950
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      140        100 *     1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)      850        850       3300     0.2576     0.2576
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.55
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     8 Canada Valley/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            26   10 328
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    42 --- 2.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 249 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   950 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1460 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   20 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   260   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    50   10 160                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      160         17 *     1650     0.0103     0.0103
    THRU (T)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       26         26       1650     0.0158
    THRU (T)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    LEFT (L)      328        328       1650     0.1988     0.1988
    T + R                     36       1650     0.0218
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       20          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      950        950       4950     0.1919
    LEFT (L)       42         42       3000     0.0140     0.0140
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      249        249       1650     0.1509
    THRU (T)     1460       1460       4950     0.2949
    LEFT (L)      260        260       3000     0.0867
    T + R                   1709       4950     0.3453     0.3453
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     9 SR 4 Bypass SB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           200    0 723
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1156 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1769 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   282 ---   1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     2.0 ---   160   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                      0    0    0                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      200        200       1720     0.1163
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      723        723       3127     0.2312     0.2312
    T + L                    723       3127     0.2312
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      282        282       1720     0.1640
    THRU (T)     1156       1156       5160     0.2240
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)      1769       1769       5160     0.3428     0.3428
    LEFT (L)      160        160       3127     0.0512
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    10 SR 4 Bypass NB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 714 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1580 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1655 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   300 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   70   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    274   10 250                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      250        211 *     1720     0.1227     0.1227
    THRU (T)       10         10       1720     0.0058
    LEFT (L)      274        274       3127     0.0876
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      300        149 *     1720     0.0866
    THRU (T)     1580       1580       5160     0.3062
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      714        714       1720     0.4151     0.4151
    THRU (T)     1655       1655       5160     0.3207
    LEFT (L)       70         70       3127     0.0224
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.54
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    11 Slatten Ranch/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           280 150    10
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   460 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 2.0     1.1 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1110 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1690 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   240 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   70   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    500 500    30                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      500        500       3300     0.1515
    LEFT (L)      500        500       3000     0.1667     0.1667
    T + R                    530       3300     0.1606
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      280         27 *     1650     0.0164
    THRU (T)      150        150       3300     0.0455     0.0455
    LEFT (L)       10         10       3000     0.0033
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      240          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1110       1110       4950     0.2242
    LEFT (L)      460        460       3000     0.1533     0.1533
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    THRU (T)     1690       1690       4950     0.3414
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                   1740       4950     0.3515     0.3515
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.72
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    12 Empire Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           100   90   90
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   220 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 340 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   680 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1200 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   260 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   30   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    510 200    20                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       20          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      200        200       1650     0.1212
    LEFT (L)      510        510       3000     0.1700     0.1700
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606     0.0606
    THRU (T)       90         90       3300     0.0273
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                    190       3300     0.0576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      260          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      680        680       4950     0.1374
    LEFT (L)      220        220       1650     0.1333     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      340        250 *     1650     0.1515
    THRU (T)     1200       1200       4950     0.2424     0.2424
    LEFT (L)       30         30       1650     0.0182
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.61
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    13 Deer Valley Rd/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           100 380 340
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   110 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 360 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   700 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1320 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   160 ---   1.1    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   200   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    450 520 220                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Deer Valley Rd
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)      520        520       3300     0.1576
    LEFT (L)      450        450       3000     0.1500
    T + R                    740       3300     0.2242     0.2242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)      380        380       3300     0.1152
    LEFT (L)      340        340       1650     0.2061     0.2061
    T + R                    480       3300     0.1455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)      700        700       4950     0.1414
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                    860       4950     0.1737
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      360        360       1650     0.2182
    THRU (T)     1320       1320       4950     0.2667
    LEFT (L)      200        200       1650     0.1212
    T + R                   1680       4950     0.3394     0.3394
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.84
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           464   40 380
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   288 --- 1.0    1.0 2.1 2.1     1.0 --- 400 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   792 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1256 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   30 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   40   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    80   70   80                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? Y

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    T + R                    150       3300     0.0455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      464        176 *     1650     0.1067
    THRU (T)       40         40       3300     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      380        380       3000     0.1267     0.1267
    T + L                    420       4650     0.0903
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      792        792       4950     0.1600
    LEFT (L)      288        288       1650     0.1745     0.1745
    T + R                    822       4950     0.1661
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      400        191 *     1650     0.1158
    THRU (T)     1256       1256       4950     0.2537     0.2537
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.60
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    15 Vista Grande Dr/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       5-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            60   20   70
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   110 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.0 --- 140 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   892 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1316 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   220 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   170   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    300   20 130                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Vista Grande Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      130          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      300        300       1650     0.1818     0.1818
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                     80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      220          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      892        892       4950     0.1802
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      140         70 *     1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1316       1316       4950     0.2659     0.2659
    LEFT (L)      170        170       1650     0.1030
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.56
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    16 Hillcrest/Country Hills
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            30 734    80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    70 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 ---   60 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    40 ---> 1.0 (NO. OF LANES)    1.1<---   60 THRU Country Hills

RIGHT   50 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   110   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   100 708 150                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1650     0.0909
    THRU (T)      708        708       3300     0.2145
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    T + R                    858       3300     0.2600     0.2600
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      734        734       3300     0.2224
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    T + R                    764       3300     0.2315
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424     0.0424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    T + R                    120       1650     0.0727     0.0727
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.42
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project AM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    18 Hillcrest/Laurel
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           120 860 315
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   170 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 195 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    90 ---> 1.1 (NO. OF LANES)    1.0<--- 100 THRU Laurel

RIGHT   110 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   254   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90 900 358                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      358        358       1650     0.2170
    THRU (T)      900        900       3300     0.2727
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                   1258       3300     0.3812     0.3812
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    THRU (T)      860        860       3300     0.2606
    LEFT (L)      315        315       1650     0.1909     0.1909
    T + R                    980       3300     0.2970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    LEFT (L)      170        170       1650     0.1030
    T + R                    200       1650     0.1212     0.1212
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      195          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    LEFT (L)      254        254       1650     0.1539     0.1539
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.85
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     1 Canada Valley/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   566 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 836 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   150 ---   1.1    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.0 ---   421   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     40    0 278                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      278          0 *     1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1720     0.0233     0.0233
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1720     0.0872
    THRU (T)      566        566       3440     0.1645
    T + R                    716       3440     0.2081     0.2081
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       836        836       3440     0.2430
    LEFT (L)      421        421       1720     0.2448     0.2448
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.48
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     2 Country Hills Dr/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            40   20   50
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    60 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 100 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   636 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.1<--- 1078 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   120 ---   1.1    1.0 1.1 1.1     1.0 ---   182   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90    0   95                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Country Hills Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       95         95       1650     0.0576
    THRU (T)        0          0       1650     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545     0.0545
    T + R                     95       1650     0.0576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                     60       1650     0.0364     0.0364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    THRU (T)      636        636       3300     0.1927
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1650     0.0364     0.0364
    T + R                    756       3300     0.2291
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)     1078       1078       3300     0.3267
    LEFT (L)      182        182       1650     0.1103
    T + R                   1178       3300     0.3570     0.3570
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.48
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     3 SR 4 Bypass SB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       2-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           471    0 720
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   770 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 890 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   11 ---   1.1    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      471        471       1800     0.2617     0.2617
    THRU (T)        0          0       1800     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      720        720       3273     0.2200
    T + L                    720       3273     0.2200
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       11         11       1800     0.0061
    THRU (T)      770        770       3600     0.2139
    T + R                    781       3600     0.2169
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       890        890       3600     0.2472     0.2472
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.51
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     4 SR 4 Bypass NB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   150 --- 1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 730 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1340 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)     2.0<--- 959 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   41    0 210                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      210        210       1720     0.1221     0.1221
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       41         41       1720     0.0238
    T + L                     41       1720     0.0238
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1340       1340       3440     0.3895
    LEFT (L)      150        150       1720     0.0872     0.0872
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      730        730       1720     0.4244     0.4244
    THRU (T)      959        959       3440     0.2788
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.63
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     5 Slatten Ranch/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           110 410 230
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   100 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 220 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1160 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 969 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   290 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    610 270 290                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      290        290       1650     0.1758
    THRU (T)      270        270       3300     0.0818
    LEFT (L)      610        610       3000     0.2033     0.2033
    T + R                    560       3300     0.1697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)      410        410       3300     0.1242
    LEFT (L)      230        230       1650     0.1394
    T + R                    520       3300     0.1576     0.1576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      290          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1160       1160       4950     0.2343     0.2343
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)      969        969       4950     0.1958
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1650     0.1576     0.1576
    T + R                   1189       4950     0.2402
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.75
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     6 Live Oak Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           290    0 130
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   340 --- 2.0    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.1 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1340 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1159 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Live Oak Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      290        103 *     1720     0.0599
    LEFT (L)      130        130       1720     0.0756     0.0756
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1340       1340       5160     0.2597
    LEFT (L)      340        340       3127     0.1087     0.1087
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50         50       1720     0.0291
    THRU (T)     1159       1159       5160     0.2246
    T + R                   1209       5160     0.2343     0.2343
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.42
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     7 Empire Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           413 300    60
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   420 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 1.0     1.0 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   890 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 686 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   160 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   50   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    110 360    60                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)      360        360       3300     0.1091
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                    420       3300     0.1273
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      413        182 *     1650     0.1103     0.1103
    THRU (T)      300        300       3300     0.0909
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1650     0.0364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      160         50 *     1650     0.0303
    THRU (T)      890        890       3300     0.2697
    LEFT (L)      420        420       3000     0.1400     0.1400
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      686        686       3300     0.2079     0.2079
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.52
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     8 Canada Valley/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            84   20 229
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    69 --- 2.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 464 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1710 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1090 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   60 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   530   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   220   20 360                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      360         69 *     1650     0.0418
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      220        220       1650     0.1333     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       84         84       1650     0.0509
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      229        229       1650     0.1388
    T + R                    104       1650     0.0630     0.0630
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       60          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1710       1710       4950     0.3455     0.3455
    LEFT (L)       69         69       3000     0.0230
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      464        464       1650     0.2812
    THRU (T)     1090       1090       4950     0.2202
    LEFT (L)      530        530       3000     0.1767     0.1767
    T + R                   1554       4950     0.3139
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.72
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     9 SR 4 Bypass SB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           240    0 849
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 2051 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1844 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   368 ---   1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     2.0 ---   380   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                      0    0    0                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      240        240       1720     0.1395
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      849        849       3127     0.2715     0.2715
    T + L                    849       3127     0.2715
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      368        368       1720     0.2140
    THRU (T)     2051       2051       5160     0.3975     0.3975
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)      1844       1844       5160     0.3574
    LEFT (L)      380        380       3127     0.1215     0.1215
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.79
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    10 SR 4 Bypass NB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 711 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 2620 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1695 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   280 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   60   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    530   50 340                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      340        307 *     1720     0.1785     0.1785
    THRU (T)       50         50       1720     0.0291
    LEFT (L)      530        530       3127     0.1695
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      280          0 *     1720     0.0000
    THRU (T)     2620       2620       5160     0.5078     0.5078
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      711        711       1720     0.4134
    THRU (T)     1695       1695       5160     0.3285
    LEFT (L)       60         60       3127     0.0192     0.0192
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.71
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    11 Slatten Ranch/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           570 550    80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   470 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 2.0     1.1 ---   60 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1970 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1476 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   530 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   50   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    400 370    80                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)      370        370       3300     0.1121
    LEFT (L)      400        400       3000     0.1333     0.1333
    T + R                    450       3300     0.1364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      570        312 *     1650     0.1891     0.1891
    THRU (T)      550        550       3300     0.1667
    LEFT (L)       80         80       3000     0.0267
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      530        310 *     1650     0.1879
    THRU (T)     1970       1970       4950     0.3980
    LEFT (L)      470        470       3000     0.1567     0.1567
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)     1476       1476       4950     0.2982
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                   1536       4950     0.3103     0.3103
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.79
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    12 Empire Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           220 220 310
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   160 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 160 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1370 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 926 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   600 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   20   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    440 120    40                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       40         20 *     1650     0.0121
    THRU (T)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    LEFT (L)      440        440       3000     0.1467     0.1467
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333     0.1333
    THRU (T)      220        220       3300     0.0667
    LEFT (L)      310        310       1650     0.1879
    T + R                    440       3300     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      600        358 *     1650     0.2170
    THRU (T)     1370       1370       4950     0.2768     0.2768
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      160          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      926        926       4950     0.1871
    LEFT (L)       20         20       1650     0.0121     0.0121
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    13 Deer Valley Rd/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           150 510 310
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   320 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 160 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1782 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1400 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   190 ---   1.1    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   190   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    260 400 180                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Deer Valley Rd
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      180        180       1650     0.1091
    THRU (T)      400        400       3300     0.1212
    LEFT (L)      260        260       3000     0.0867
    T + R                    580       3300     0.1758     0.1758
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1650     0.0909
    THRU (T)      510        510       3300     0.1545
    LEFT (L)      310        310       1650     0.1879     0.1879
    T + R                    660       3300     0.2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      190        190       1650     0.1152
    THRU (T)     1782       1782       4950     0.3600
    LEFT (L)      320        320       1650     0.1939
    T + R                   1972       4950     0.3984     0.3984
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)     1400       1400       4950     0.2828
    LEFT (L)      190        190       1650     0.1152     0.1152
    T + R                   1560       4950     0.3152
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.88
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           446 120 580
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   703 --- 1.0    1.0 2.1 2.1     1.0 --- 480 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1589 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1354 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   80 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   100   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    50   70   60                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? Y

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                    130       3300     0.0394     0.0394
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      446          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      120        120       3300     0.0364
    LEFT (L)      580        580       3000     0.1933     0.1933
    T + L                    700       4650     0.1505
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)     1589       1589       4950     0.3210
    LEFT (L)      703        703       1650     0.4261     0.4261
    T + R                   1669       4950     0.3372
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      480        161 *     1650     0.0976
    THRU (T)     1354       1354       4950     0.2735     0.2735
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.93
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             E
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    15 Vista Grande Dr/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       5-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           170   40   70
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   190 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.0 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1649 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1204 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   390 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   300   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    320   50 220                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Vista Grande Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      220          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    LEFT (L)      320        320       1650     0.1939     0.1939
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      170        170       1650     0.1030
    THRU (T)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                    210       1650     0.1273     0.1273
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      390         70 *     1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1649       1649       4950     0.3331     0.3331
    LEFT (L)      190        190       1650     0.1152
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         20 *     1650     0.0121
    THRU (T)     1204       1204       4950     0.2432
    LEFT (L)      300        300       1650     0.1818     0.1818
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.84
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    16 Hillcrest/Country Hills
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            80 916 110
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    70 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    20 ---> 1.0 (NO. OF LANES)    1.1<---   50 THRU Country Hills

RIGHT   100 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   120   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    100 1053   70                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1053       1053       3300     0.3191
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    T + R                   1123       3300     0.3403     0.3403
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)      916        916       3300     0.2776
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                    996       3300     0.3018
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      100          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424     0.0424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    THRU (T)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    LEFT (L)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    T + R                    140       1650     0.0848     0.0848
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.53
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 No Project PM Peak Hour         10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    18 Hillcrest/Laurel
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           220 910 273
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   140 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 240 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    80 ---> 1.1 (NO. OF LANES)    1.0<--- 120 THRU Laurel

RIGHT   110 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   346   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90 970 283                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      283        283       1650     0.1715
    THRU (T)      970        970       3300     0.2939
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                   1253       3300     0.3797     0.3797
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)      910        910       3300     0.2758
    LEFT (L)      273        273       1650     0.1655     0.1655
    T + R                   1130       3300     0.3424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    LEFT (L)      140        140       1650     0.0848
    T + R                    190       1650     0.1152     0.1152
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      240          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    LEFT (L)      346        346       1650     0.2097     0.2097
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.87
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025NP.PMV,CAP=
Cumulative With Project
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     1 Canada Valley/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   960 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 670 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   100 ---   1.1    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    120    0 290                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      290         30 *     1720     0.0174
    LEFT (L)      120        120       1720     0.0698     0.0698
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1720     0.0581
    THRU (T)      960        960       3440     0.2791
    T + R                   1060       3440     0.3081     0.3081
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       670        670       3440     0.1948
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1720     0.1512     0.1512
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.53
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     2 Country Hills Dr/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            60   30   80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    40 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 ---   30 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   760 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.1<--- 660 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   420 ---   1.1    1.0 1.1 1.1     1.0 ---   100   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    160   20 330                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Country Hills Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      330        330       1650     0.2000
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    T + R                    350       1650     0.2121     0.2121
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    T + R                     90       1650     0.0545
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      420        420       1650     0.2545
    THRU (T)      760        760       3300     0.2303
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    T + R                   1180       3300     0.3576     0.3576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      660        660       3300     0.2000
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606     0.0606
    T + R                    690       3300     0.2091
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.68
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     3 SR 4 Bypass SB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       2-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           340    0 840
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1080 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)     2.0<--- 450 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   90 ---   1.1    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      340        340       1800     0.1889
    THRU (T)        0          0       1800     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      840        840       3273     0.2566     0.2566
    T + L                    840       3273     0.2566
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       90         90       1800     0.0500
    THRU (T)     1080       1080       3600     0.3000
    T + R                   1170       3600     0.3250     0.3250
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       450        450       3600     0.1250
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.58
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     4 SR 4 Bypass NB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   260 --- 1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 620 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1660 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)     2.0<--- 580 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   20    0 100                           Urb=N, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1720     0.0581     0.0581
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       20         20       1720     0.0116
    T + L                     20       1720     0.0116
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1660       1660       3440     0.4826
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1720     0.1512     0.1512
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      620        620       1720     0.3605     0.3605
    THRU (T)      580        580       3440     0.1686
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     5 Slatten Ranch/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            40 180 130
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   160 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 320 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   970 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 990 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   630 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    170 250 160                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)      250        250       3300     0.0758
    LEFT (L)      170        170       3000     0.0567
    T + R                    410       3300     0.1242     0.1242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    THRU (T)      180        180       3300     0.0545
    LEFT (L)      130        130       1650     0.0788     0.0788
    T + R                    220       3300     0.0667
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      630        537 *     1650     0.3255     0.3255
    THRU (T)      970        970       4950     0.1960
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      320        320       1650     0.1939
    THRU (T)      990        990       4950     0.2000
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1650     0.1576     0.1576
    T + R                   1310       4950     0.2646
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.69
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     6 Live Oak Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           310    0   60
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   290 --- 2.0    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.1 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   970 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1260 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Live Oak Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      310        150 *     1720     0.0872     0.0872
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1720     0.0349
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)       970        970       5160     0.1880
    LEFT (L)      290        290       3127     0.0927     0.0927
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         90       1720     0.0523
    THRU (T)     1260       1260       5160     0.2442
    T + R                   1350       5160     0.2616     0.2616
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.44
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     7 Empire Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           350 310    40
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   300 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 1.0     1.0 --- 140 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   680 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 860 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   50 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   70   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   140 220    10                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    THRU (T)      220        220       3300     0.0667
    LEFT (L)      140        140       1650     0.0848     0.0848
    T + R                    230       3300     0.0697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      350        185 *     1650     0.1121     0.1121
    THRU (T)      310        310       3300     0.0939
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      680        680       3300     0.2061
    LEFT (L)      300        300       3000     0.1000     0.1000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      140        100 *     1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)      860        860       3300     0.2606     0.2606
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.56
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     8 Canada Valley/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            80   10 360
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    60 --- 2.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 260 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   950 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1460 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   20 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   260   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    50   10 160                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      160         17 *     1650     0.0103     0.0103
    THRU (T)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)       10         10       1650     0.0061
    LEFT (L)      360        360       1650     0.2182     0.2182
    T + R                     90       1650     0.0545
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       20          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      950        950       4950     0.1919
    LEFT (L)       60         60       3000     0.0200     0.0200
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      260        260       1650     0.1576
    THRU (T)     1460       1460       4950     0.2949
    LEFT (L)      260        260       3000     0.0867
    T + R                   1720       4950     0.3475     0.3475
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.60
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     9 SR 4 Bypass SB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           200    0 740
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1170 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1780 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   300 ---   1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     2.0 ---   160   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                      0    0    0                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      200        200       1720     0.1163
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      740        740       3127     0.2366     0.2366
    T + L                    740       3127     0.2366
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      300        300       1720     0.1744
    THRU (T)     1170       1170       5160     0.2267
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)      1780       1780       5160     0.3450     0.3450
    LEFT (L)      160        160       3127     0.0512
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.58
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    10 SR 4 Bypass NB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 720 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1610 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1660 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   300 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   70   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    280   10 250                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      250        211 *     1720     0.1227     0.1227
    THRU (T)       10         10       1720     0.0058
    LEFT (L)      280        280       3127     0.0895
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      300        146 *     1720     0.0849
    THRU (T)     1610       1610       5160     0.3120
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      720        720       1720     0.4186     0.4186
    THRU (T)     1660       1660       5160     0.3217
    LEFT (L)       70         70       3127     0.0224
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.54
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    11 Slatten Ranch/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           280 150    10
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   460 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 2.0     1.1 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1140 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1700 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   240 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   70   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    500 500    30                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      500        500       3300     0.1515
    LEFT (L)      500        500       3000     0.1667     0.1667
    T + R                    530       3300     0.1606
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      280         27 *     1650     0.0164
    THRU (T)      150        150       3300     0.0455     0.0455
    LEFT (L)       10         10       3000     0.0033
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      240          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1140       1140       4950     0.2303
    LEFT (L)      460        460       3000     0.1533     0.1533
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    THRU (T)     1700       1700       4950     0.3434
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                   1750       4950     0.3535     0.3535
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.72
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    12 Empire Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           100   90   90
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   220 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 340 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   710 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1210 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   260 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   30   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    510 200    20                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       20          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      200        200       1650     0.1212
    LEFT (L)      510        510       3000     0.1700     0.1700
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606     0.0606
    THRU (T)       90         90       3300     0.0273
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                    190       3300     0.0576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      260          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      710        710       4950     0.1434
    LEFT (L)      220        220       1650     0.1333     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      340        250 *     1650     0.1515
    THRU (T)     1210       1210       4950     0.2444     0.2444
    LEFT (L)       30         30       1650     0.0182
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.61
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    13 Deer Valley Rd/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           100 380 340
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   110 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 360 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   720 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)    3.1<--- 1380 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   160 ---   1.1    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   200   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    450 520 220                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Deer Valley Rd
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)      520        520       3300     0.1576
    LEFT (L)      450        450       3000     0.1500
    T + R                    740       3300     0.2242     0.2242
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)      380        380       3300     0.1152
    LEFT (L)      340        340       1650     0.2061     0.2061
    T + R                    480       3300     0.1455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)      720        720       4950     0.1455
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                    880       4950     0.1778
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      360        360       1650     0.2182
    THRU (T)     1380       1380       4950     0.2788
    LEFT (L)      200        200       1650     0.1212
    T + R                   1740       4950     0.3515     0.3515
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.85
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           470   40 380
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   290 --- 1.0    1.0 2.1 2.1     1.0 --- 400 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   810 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1310 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   30 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   40   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    80   70   80                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? Y

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    T + R                    150       3300     0.0455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      470        180 *     1650     0.1091
    THRU (T)       40         40       3300     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      380        380       3000     0.1267     0.1267
    T + L                    420       4650     0.0903
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      810        810       4950     0.1636
    LEFT (L)      290        290       1650     0.1758     0.1758
    T + R                    840       4950     0.1697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      400        191 *     1650     0.1158
    THRU (T)     1310       1310       4950     0.2646     0.2646
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.62
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    15 Vista Grande Dr/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       5-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            60   20   70
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   110 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.0 --- 140 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   910 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1370 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   220 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   170   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    300   20 130                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Vista Grande Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      130          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      300        300       1650     0.1818     0.1818
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                     80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      220          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      910        910       4950     0.1838
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      140         70 *     1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1370       1370       4950     0.2768     0.2768
    LEFT (L)      170        170       1650     0.1030
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    16 Hillcrest/Country Hills
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            30 740    80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    70 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 ---   60 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    40 ---> 1.0 (NO. OF LANES)    1.1<---   60 THRU Country Hills

RIGHT   50 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   110   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   100 710 150                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1650     0.0909
    THRU (T)      710        710       3300     0.2152
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    T + R                    860       3300     0.2606     0.2606
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      740        740       3300     0.2242
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    T + R                    770       3300     0.2333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424     0.0424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    T + R                    120       1650     0.0727     0.0727
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.42
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project AM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    18 Hillcrest/Laurel
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           120 860 320
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   170 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 210 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    80 ---> 1.1 (NO. OF LANES)    1.0<--- 100 THRU Laurel

RIGHT   110 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90 900 360                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      360        360       1650     0.2182
    THRU (T)      900        900       3300     0.2727
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                   1260       3300     0.3818     0.3818
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    THRU (T)      860        860       3300     0.2606
    LEFT (L)      320        320       1650     0.1939     0.1939
    T + R                    980       3300     0.2970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    LEFT (L)      170        170       1650     0.1030
    T + R                    190       1650     0.1152     0.1152
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      210          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1650     0.1576     0.1576
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.85
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     1 Canada Valley/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   590 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 850 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   150 ---   1.1    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.0 ---   490   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     40    0 320                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      320          0 *     1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1720     0.0233     0.0233
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1720     0.0872
    THRU (T)      590        590       3440     0.1715
    T + R                    740       3440     0.2151     0.2151
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       850        850       3440     0.2471
    LEFT (L)      490        490       1720     0.2849     0.2849
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.52
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     2 Country Hills Dr/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            40   20   50
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    60 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 100 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   690 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.1<--- 1170 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   120 ---   1.1    1.0 1.1 1.1     1.0 ---   310   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90    0 170                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Country Hills Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      170        170       1650     0.1030     0.1030
    THRU (T)        0          0       1650     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                    170       1650     0.1030
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303     0.0303
    T + R                     60       1650     0.0364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    THRU (T)      690        690       3300     0.2091
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    T + R                    810       3300     0.2455     0.2455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    THRU (T)     1170       1170       3300     0.3545
    LEFT (L)      310        310       1650     0.1879     0.1879
    T + R                   1270       3300     0.3848
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     3 SR 4 Bypass SB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       2-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           590    0 720
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   870 ---> 2.1 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 990 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   40 ---   1.1    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      590        590       1800     0.3278     0.3278
    THRU (T)        0          0       1800     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      720        720       3273     0.2200
    T + L                    720       3273     0.2200
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       40         40       1800     0.0222
    THRU (T)      870        870       3600     0.2417
    T + R                    910       3600     0.2528
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)       990        990       3600     0.2750     0.2750
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.60
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     4 SR 4 Bypass NB/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   220 --- 1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 730 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1370 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)     2.0<--- 1010 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   90    0 210                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      210        210       1720     0.1221     0.1221
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1720     0.0523
    T + L                     90       1720     0.0523
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1370       1370       3440     0.3983
    LEFT (L)      220        220       1720     0.1279     0.1279
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      730        730       1720     0.4244     0.4244
    THRU (T)     1010       1010       3440     0.2936
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.67
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             B
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     5 Slatten Ranch/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           110 410 230
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   100 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 220 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1190 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1020 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   290 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   260   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    610 270 290                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      290        290       1650     0.1758
    THRU (T)      270        270       3300     0.0818
    LEFT (L)      610        610       3000     0.2033     0.2033
    T + R                    560       3300     0.1697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)      410        410       3300     0.1242
    LEFT (L)      230        230       1650     0.1394
    T + R                    520       3300     0.1576     0.1576
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      290          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1190       1190       4950     0.2404     0.2404
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)     1020       1020       4950     0.2061
    LEFT (L)      260        260       1650     0.1576     0.1576
    T + R                   1240       4950     0.2505
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.76
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     6 Live Oak Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           290    0 130
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   340 --- 2.0    1.0 0.0 1.0     1.1 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1370 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1210 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   0 ---   0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     0.0 ---   0   LEFT
            |         <---   ^   --->      |
            v            |   |   |         v
  N                      |   |   |                          SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    0    0    0                          Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                   LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Live Oak Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      290        103 *     1720     0.0599
    LEFT (L)      130        130       1720     0.0756     0.0756
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB THRU (T)      1370       1370       5160     0.2655
    LEFT (L)      340        340       3127     0.1087     0.1087
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50         50       1720     0.0291
    THRU (T)     1210       1210       5160     0.2345
    T + R                   1260       5160     0.2442     0.2442
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.43
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     7 Empire Ave/Laurel Road
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           430 300    60
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   430 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 1.0     1.0 ---   50 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   910 ---> 2.0 (NO. OF LANES)    2.0<--- 720 THRU Laurel Road

RIGHT   160 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   50   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    110 360    60                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)      360        360       3300     0.1091
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                    420       3300     0.1273
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      430        194 *     1650     0.1176     0.1176
    THRU (T)      300        300       3300     0.0909
    LEFT (L)       60         60       1650     0.0364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      160         50 *     1650     0.0303
    THRU (T)      910        910       3300     0.2758
    LEFT (L)      430        430       3000     0.1433     0.1433
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       50          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      720        720       3300     0.2182     0.2182
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.55
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     8 Canada Valley/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           120   20 350
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   130 --- 2.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.1 --- 500 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1710 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1090 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   60 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   530   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                   220   20 360                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Canada Valley
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      360         69 *     1650     0.0418     0.0418
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      220        220       1650     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)      350        350       1650     0.2121     0.2121
    T + R                    140       1650     0.0848
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       60          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)     1710       1710       4950     0.3455     0.3455
    LEFT (L)      130        130       3000     0.0433
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      500        500       1650     0.3030
    THRU (T)     1090       1090       4950     0.2202
    LEFT (L)      530        530       3000     0.1767     0.1767
    T + R                   1590       4950     0.3212
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.78
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION     9 SR 4 Bypass SB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           240    0 860
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    1.0 1.1 2.1     0.0 ---    0 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 2060 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1880 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   380 ---   1.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     2.0 ---   380   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                      0    0    0                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass SB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      240        240       1720     0.1395
    THRU (T)        0          0       1720     0.0000
    LEFT (L)      860        860       3127     0.2750     0.2750
    T + L                    860       3127     0.2750
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      380        380       1720     0.2209
    THRU (T)     2060       2060       5160     0.3992     0.3992
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB THRU (T)      1880       1880       5160     0.3643
    LEFT (L)      380        380       3127     0.1215     0.1215
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.80
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    10 SR 4 Bypass NB/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       3-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------             0    0    0
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT     0 --- 0.0    0.0 0.0 0.0     1.0 --- 730 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 2640 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1710 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   280 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     2.0 ---   60   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    550   50 340                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: SR 4 Bypass NB
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      340        307 *     1720     0.1785     0.1785
    THRU (T)       50         50       1720     0.0291
    LEFT (L)      550        550       3127     0.1759
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      280          0 *     1720     0.0000
    THRU (T)     2640       2640       5160     0.5116     0.5116
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      730        730       1720     0.4244
    THRU (T)     1710       1710       5160     0.3314
    LEFT (L)       60         60       3127     0.0192     0.0192
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.71
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    11 Slatten Ranch/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           570 550    80
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   470 --- 2.0    1.0 2.0 2.0     1.1 ---   60 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1990 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1510 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   530 ---   1.0    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   50   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    400 370    80                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Slatten Ranch
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)      370        370       3300     0.1121
    LEFT (L)      400        400       3000     0.1333     0.1333
    T + R                    450       3300     0.1364
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      570        312 *     1650     0.1891     0.1891
    THRU (T)      550        550       3300     0.1667
    LEFT (L)       80         80       3000     0.0267
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      530        310 *     1650     0.1879
    THRU (T)     1990       1990       4950     0.4020
    LEFT (L)      470        470       3000     0.1567     0.1567
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)     1510       1510       4950     0.3051
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                   1570       4950     0.3172     0.3172
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.80
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    12 Empire Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           220 220 310
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   160 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 160 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1390 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 960 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   600 ---   1.0    2.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   20   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    440 120    40                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Empire Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       40         20 *     1650     0.0121
    THRU (T)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    LEFT (L)      440        440       3000     0.1467     0.1467
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333     0.1333
    THRU (T)      220        220       3300     0.0667
    LEFT (L)      310        310       1650     0.1879
    T + R                    440       3300     0.1333
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      600        358 *     1650     0.2170
    THRU (T)     1390       1390       4950     0.2808     0.2808
    LEFT (L)      160        160       1650     0.0970
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      160          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      960        960       4950     0.1939
    LEFT (L)       20         20       1650     0.0121     0.0121
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.57
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    13 Deer Valley Rd/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           150 510 310
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   320 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 --- 160 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1850 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)     3.1<--- 1440 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   190 ---   1.1    2.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   190   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    260 400 180                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Deer Valley Rd
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      180        180       1650     0.1091
    THRU (T)      400        400       3300     0.1212
    LEFT (L)      260        260       3000     0.0867
    T + R                    580       3300     0.1758     0.1758
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      150        150       1650     0.0909
    THRU (T)      510        510       3300     0.1545
    LEFT (L)      310        310       1650     0.1879     0.1879
    T + R                    660       3300     0.2000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      190        190       1650     0.1152
    THRU (T)     1850       1850       4950     0.3737
    LEFT (L)      320        320       1650     0.1939
    T + R                   2040       4950     0.4121     0.4121
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      160        160       1650     0.0970
    THRU (T)     1440       1440       4950     0.2909
    LEFT (L)      190        190       1650     0.1152     0.1152
    T + R                   1600       4950     0.3232
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.89
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           450 120 580
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   710 --- 1.0    1.0 2.1 2.1     1.0 --- 480 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1650 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1390 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   80 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   100   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    50   70   60                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? Y

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                    130       3300     0.0394     0.0394
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      450          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      120        120       3300     0.0364
    LEFT (L)      580        580       3000     0.1933     0.1933
    T + L                    700       4650     0.1505
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)     1650       1650       4950     0.3333
    LEFT (L)      710        710       1650     0.4303     0.4303
    T + R                   1730       4950     0.3495
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      480        161 *     1650     0.0976
    THRU (T)     1390       1390       4950     0.2808     0.2808
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.94
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             E
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    15 Vista Grande Dr/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       5-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           170   40   70
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   190 --- 1.0    1.1 1.1 1.0     1.0 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1710 ---> 3.0 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1240 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   390 ---   1.0    1.0 1.0 1.0     1.0 ---   300   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    320   50 220                             Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Vista Grande Dr
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      220          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    LEFT (L)      320        320       1650     0.1939     0.1939
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      170        170       1650     0.1030
    THRU (T)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    T + R                    210       1650     0.1273     0.1273
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      390         70 *     1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1710       1710       4950     0.3455     0.3455
    LEFT (L)      190        190       1650     0.1152
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         20 *     1650     0.0121
    THRU (T)     1240       1240       4950     0.2505
    LEFT (L)      300        300       1650     0.1818     0.1818
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.85
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    16 Hillcrest/Country Hills
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------            80 920 110
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT    70 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.1 ---   90 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    20 ---> 1.0 (NO. OF LANES)    1.1<---   50 THRU Country Hills

RIGHT   100 ---   1.0    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   120   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    100 1060   70                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       70         70       1650     0.0424
    THRU (T)     1060       1060       3300     0.3212
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
    T + R                   1130       3300     0.3424     0.3424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)      920        920       3300     0.2788
    LEFT (L)      110        110       1650     0.0667     0.0667
    T + R                   1000       3300     0.3030
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      100          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)       20         20       1650     0.0121
    LEFT (L)       70         70       1650     0.0424     0.0424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    THRU (T)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    LEFT (L)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    T + R                    140       1650     0.0848     0.0848
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.54
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 With Project PM Peak Hour       10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    18 Hillcrest/Laurel
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           220 910 290
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   140 --- 1.0    1.1 2.1 1.0     1.0 --- 250 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU    80 ---> 1.1 (NO. OF LANES)    1.0<--- 210 THRU Laurel

RIGHT   110 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   350   LEFT
              |         <---   ^   --->      |
              v            |   |   |         v
  N                        |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                     90 970 290                              Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                     LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)      290        290       1650     0.1758
    THRU (T)      970        970       3300     0.2939
    LEFT (L)       90         90       1650     0.0545
    T + R                   1260       3300     0.3818     0.3818
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      220        220       1650     0.1333
    THRU (T)      910        910       3300     0.2758
    LEFT (L)      290        290       1650     0.1758     0.1758
    T + R                   1130       3300     0.3424
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)      110        110       1650     0.0667
    THRU (T)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    LEFT (L)      140        140       1650     0.0848
    T + R                    190       1650     0.1152     0.1152
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      250          0 *     1650     0.0000
    THRU (T)      210        210       1650     0.1273
    LEFT (L)      350        350       1650     0.2121     0.2121
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.88
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             D
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025.INT,VOL=2025WP.PMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 AM Peak Hour Mitigated          10/24/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           470   40 380
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   290 --- 2.0    1.0 1.0 2.0     1.0 --- 400 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU   810 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)    3.0<--- 1310 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   30 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   40   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                           SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    80   70   80                           Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       80         80       1650     0.0485     0.0485
    T + R                    150       3300     0.0455
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      470        311 *     1650     0.1885     0.1885
    THRU (T)       40         40       1650     0.0242
    LEFT (L)      380        380       3000     0.1267
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       30         30       1650     0.0182
    THRU (T)      810        810       4950     0.1636
    LEFT (L)      290        290       3000     0.0967     0.0967
    T + R                    840       4950     0.1697
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      400        191 *     1650     0.1158
    THRU (T)     1310       1310       4950     0.2646     0.2646
    LEFT (L)       40         40       1650     0.0242
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.60
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             A
========================================================================
* ADJUSTED FOR RIGHT TURN ON RED
INT=2025MIT.INT,VOL=2025WP.AMV,CAP=
CCTALOS Software ver. 2.35 by TJKM Transportation Consultants
========================================================================
Condition: Antioch Davidon 2025 PM Peak Hour Mitigated          10/23/07
========================================================================
INTERSECTION    14 Hillcrest Ave/Lone Tree Way
Count Date                   Time                Peak Hour
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCTA METHOD         RIGHT THRU LEFT                       8-PHASE SIGNAL
-----------           450 120 580
                        |   |   |
             ^          |   |   |         ^
             |       <---   v   --->      | Split? N
LEFT   710 --- 2.0    1.0 1.0 2.0     1.0 --- 480 RIGHT
                                                          STREET NAME:
THRU 1650 ---> 3.1 (NO. OF LANES)     3.0<--- 1390 THRU Lone Tree Way

RIGHT   80 ---   1.1    1.0 2.1 1.1     1.0 ---   100   LEFT
             |         <---   ^   --->      |
             v            |   |   |         v
  N                       |   |   |                            SIG WARRANTS:
W + E                    50   70   60                            Urb=Y, Rur=Y
  S                    LEFT THRU RIGHT Split? N

               STREET NAME: Hillcrest Ave
========================================================================
               ORIGINAL   ADJUSTED                V/C     CRITICAL
   MOVEMENT     VOLUME     VOLUME*   CAPACITY    RATIO       V/C
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NB RIGHT (R)       60         60       1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)       70         70       3300     0.0212
    LEFT (L)       50         50       1650     0.0303
    T + R                    130       3300     0.0394     0.0394
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SB RIGHT (R)      450         60 *     1650     0.0364
    THRU (T)      120        120       1650     0.0727
    LEFT (L)      580        580       3000     0.1933     0.1933
------------------------------------------------------------------------
EB RIGHT (R)       80         80       1650     0.0485
    THRU (T)     1650       1650       4950     0.3333
    LEFT (L)      710        710       3000     0.2367     0.2367
    T + R                   1730       4950     0.3495
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WB RIGHT (R)      480        161 *     1650     0.0976
    THRU (T)     1390       1390       4950     0.2808     0.2808
    LEFT (L)      100        100       1650     0.0606
========================================================================
     TOTAL VOLUME-TO-CAPACITY RATIO:                         0.75
     INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE:                             C
===================================================
         APPENDIX D:

Lone Tree Way/Canada Valley Road

        Queuing Reports
Queues                                                                                                  Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                                Existing AM Peak Hour



Lane Group                 EBL     EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)        32     829      58    184    1117       187     40     39     34     211      34      38
v/c Ratio                  0.30    0.26    0.06   0.57    0.32      0.16   0.23   0.36   0.30    0.76    0.11    0.13
Control Delay              53.3     8.3     2.9   68.6     6.6       1.1   62.0   31.8   18.3    57.4    43.6    12.4
Queue Delay                 0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                53.3     8.3     2.9   68.6     6.6       1.1   62.0   31.8   18.3    57.4    43.6    12.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)       27      61       3     77      93         1     17     13      0     173      25       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)     m48       68    m11     119     150        10     37     52     35     244      52      30
Internal Link Dist (ft)             900                    775                     542                   1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)        300             120     300                     150                   170
Base Capacity (vph)         123   3137      992     401   3447      1134    185    525    498     381     889     775
Starvation Cap Reductn        0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn           0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.26   0.26     0.06    0.46   0.32      0.16   0.22   0.07   0.07    0.55    0.04    0.05
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/7/2008                                                                                                       EER
Page 1                                                                                   Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Queues                                                                                                   Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                                Existing PM Peak Hour



Lane Group                  EBL    EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         56   1410      57    343     981       264     88    122    115     182       58     23
v/c Ratio                   0.41   0.53    0.07   0.68    0.32      0.25   0.29   0.58   0.44    0.79     0.19   0.08
Control Delay               58.9   22.9    15.3   69.7     8.6       1.4   58.6   33.5    8.8    69.4     42.9   13.4
Queue Delay                  0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                 58.9   22.9    15.3   69.7     8.6       1.4   58.6   33.5    8.8    69.4     42.9   13.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)        42    226      10    148      78         0     37     66      0     148       43      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)      m61     324    m23     159     162        21     64    115     51    #245       71     22
Internal Link Dist (ft)             905                    760                     542                    1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)         300            120     300                     150                   170
Base Capacity (vph)          150   2671     834     532   3093      1044    363    508    521     259      645    554
Starvation Cap Reductn         0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0        0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn          0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0        0      0
Storage Cap Reductn            0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0        0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio           0.37   0.53    0.07    0.64   0.32      0.25   0.24   0.24   0.22    0.70     0.09   0.04
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




EER                                                                                                         11/7/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                  Page 1
Queues                                                                                                      Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Existing AM Peak Hour with Split Phasing



Lane Group                 EBL     EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL       NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)        32     829      58    184    1117       187     40        39      34     119     126      38
v/c Ratio                  0.40    0.26    0.06   0.57    0.31      0.16   0.21      0.35    0.30    0.51    0.53    0.15
Control Delay              63.1     6.3     1.5   64.6     5.2       0.6   58.2      31.8    18.4    52.4    52.6    14.1
Queue Delay                 0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                63.1     6.3     1.5   64.6     5.2       0.6   58.2      31.8    18.4    52.4    52.6    14.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)       28      49       3     67      87         1     17        13       0      98     105       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)     m50       43     m6     120      98         6     36        52      35     160     167      32
Internal Link Dist (ft)             900                    775                        542                    1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)        300            120      300                     150                       170
Base Capacity (vph)          82   3217    1016      349   3605      1176   1003       488     464     491     499     490
Starvation Cap Reductn        0      0       0        0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0      0       0        0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn           0      0       0        0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.39   0.26    0.06     0.53   0.31      0.16   0.04      0.08    0.07    0.24    0.25    0.08
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/7/2008                                                                                                           EER
Page 1                                                                                       Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Queues                                                                                                      Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Existing PM Peak Hour with Split Phasing



Lane Group                  EBL    EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL       NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         56   1410      57    343     981       264     88       122     115     117     123      23
v/c Ratio                   0.49   0.61    0.08   0.49    0.32      0.25   0.30      0.67    0.49    0.44    0.45    0.09
Control Delay               63.7   28.4    17.1   52.7     8.6       1.0   54.5      36.4    10.3    48.4    48.5    13.7
Queue Delay                  0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                 63.7   28.4    17.1   52.7     8.6       1.0   54.5      36.4    10.3    48.4    48.5    13.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)        43    226      10    128      72         0     36        66       0      97     103       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)      m63    #558    m23     150     179        13     60       132      58     134     140      22
Internal Link Dist (ft)             905                    760                        542                    1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)         300            120     300                     150                       170
Base Capacity (vph)          123   2324     727     703   3107      1048   1003       508     521     491     504     472
Starvation Cap Reductn         0      0       0       0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn          0      0       0       0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn            0      0       0       0      0         0      0         0       0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio           0.46   0.61    0.08    0.49   0.32      0.25   0.09      0.24    0.22    0.24    0.24    0.05
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




EER                                                                                                             11/7/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                      Page 1
Queues                                                                                                  Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour



Lane Group                 EBL    EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)        32   1079       72    234    1243       187     84    118    102     211      34      38
v/c Ratio                  0.36   0.36     0.08   0.62    0.36      0.17   0.30   0.62   0.55    0.77    0.12    0.14
Control Delay              57.9    9.6      3.8   73.6     6.9       1.5   61.1   15.6   11.4    59.4    43.8    12.4
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                57.9    9.6      3.8   73.6     6.9       1.5   61.1   15.6   11.4    59.4    43.8    12.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)       28     72        2    103      89         1     35     13      0     172      25       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)     m49     130       20    148     188        14     63     77     57     249      51      29
Internal Link Dist (ft)            900                     775                     542                   1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)        300             120     300                     150                   170
Base Capacity (vph)          95   2965      940     418   3406      1122    283    533    523     354     817     715
Starvation Cap Reductn        0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn           0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.34   0.36     0.08    0.56   0.36      0.17   0.30   0.22   0.20    0.60    0.04    0.05
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/7/2008                                                                                                       EER
Page 1                                                                                   Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Queues                                                                                                  Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour



Lane Group                  EBL    EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         56   1652     104    500    1308       264    115    167    163    182       58     23
v/c Ratio                   0.41   0.67    0.13   0.76    0.42      0.25   0.34   0.65   0.50   0.90     0.20   0.09
Control Delay               55.2   22.7    13.3   70.2    10.4       2.9   58.3   28.7    7.5   96.9     44.5   13.7
Queue Delay                  0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                 55.2   22.7    13.3   70.2    10.4       2.9   58.3   28.7    7.5   96.9     44.5   13.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)        41    250       8    212      77         0     48     78      0    154       44      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)      m61    #488    m49    #295     272      m53      79    131     57   #292       71     22
Internal Link Dist (ft)             905                    760                     542                   1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)         300            120     300                     150                  170
Base Capacity (vph)          150   2451     775     657   3104      1047    375    520    555    204      588    507
Starvation Cap Reductn         0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0      0        0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn          0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0      0        0      0
Storage Cap Reductn            0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0      0      0        0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio           0.37   0.67    0.13    0.76   0.42      0.25   0.31   0.32   0.29   0.89     0.10   0.05
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




EER                                                                                                        11/7/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                 Page 1
Queues                                                                                                     Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                    Near-Term No Project AM Peak Hour with Split Phasing



Lane Group                 EBL    EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)        32   1079       72    234    1243       187      84     118    102      119     126      38
v/c Ratio                  0.59   0.36     0.08   0.59    0.36      0.16    0.37    0.60   0.52     0.51    0.53    0.15
Control Delay              88.4    7.2      1.6   63.2     6.5       0.5    57.5    15.6   11.4     52.4    52.6    14.1
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                88.4    7.2      1.6   63.2     6.5       0.5    57.5    15.6   11.4     52.4    52.6    14.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)       28     67        2     86     103         0      35      13      0       98     105       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)    m#58     139        7    134     115         5      61      77     57      160     167      32
Internal Link Dist (ft)            900                     775                       542                    1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)        300             120     300                     150                      170
Base Capacity (vph)          54   2988      946     395   3471      1137   1003      522     512     491     499     490
Starvation Cap Reductn        0      0        0       0      0         0      0        0       0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0      0        0       0      0         0      0        0       0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn           0      0        0       0      0         0      0        0       0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.59   0.36     0.08    0.59   0.36      0.16   0.08     0.23    0.20    0.24    0.25    0.08
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/7/2008                                                                                                          EER
Page 1                                                                                      Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Queues                                                                                                     Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                    Near-Term No Project PM Peak Hour with Split Phasing



Lane Group                  EBL    EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         56   1652     104    500    1308       264     115     167    163      117     123     23
v/c Ratio                   0.82   0.98    0.19   0.46    0.42      0.25    0.34    0.74   0.55     0.44    0.45   0.09
Control Delay              106.7   48.2    14.4   44.8     8.1       1.2    53.6    31.6    8.9     48.4    48.5   13.7
Queue Delay                  0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                106.7   48.2    14.4   44.8     8.1       1.2    53.6    31.6    8.9     48.4    48.5   13.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)        47    293      14    194      86         0      47      78      0       97     103      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)     m#84    #742    m34     213     221       m8       74     154     68      134     140     22
Internal Link Dist (ft)             905                    760                       542                    1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)         300            120    300                      150                      170
Base Capacity (vph)           68   1687     543   1094    3112      1038   1003      520     555     491     504    472
Starvation Cap Reductn         0      0       0      0       0         0      0        0       0       0       0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn          0      0       0      0       0         0      0        0       0       0       0      0
Storage Cap Reductn            0      0       0      0       0         0      0        0       0       0       0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio           0.82   0.98    0.19   0.46    0.42      0.25   0.11     0.32    0.29    0.24    0.24   0.05
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




EER                                                                                                           11/7/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                    Page 1
Queues                                                                                                    Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Near-Term Plus Project AM Peak Hour



Lane Group                 EBL    EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR       SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)        54   1079       72    234    1243       259     84    118    102      429       34    104
v/c Ratio                  0.59   0.39     0.08   0.62    0.40      0.24   0.42   0.62   0.55     1.21     0.09   0.26
Control Delay              70.4   11.1      3.8   72.4     8.8       1.7   64.7   15.6   11.4    162.7     41.5    7.9
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                70.4   11.1      3.8   72.4     8.8       1.7   64.7   15.6   11.4    162.7     41.5    7.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)       47     72        2    105     105         1     35     13      0    ~441        24      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)    m#90     128       20    146     197        26     63     77     57     #648       51     47
Internal Link Dist (ft)            900                     775                     542                     1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)        300             120     300                     150                    170
Base Capacity (vph)          95   2736      871     418   3095      1065    211    533     523     354      817    752
Starvation Cap Reductn        0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Storage Cap Reductn           0      0        0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.57   0.39     0.08    0.56   0.40      0.24   0.40   0.22    0.20    1.21     0.04   0.14
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/7/2008                                                                                                        EER
Page 1                                                                                    Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
Queues                                                                                                    Davidon EIR
8: Lone Tree Way & Canada Valley                                                  Near-Term Plus Project PM Peak Hour



Lane Group                  EBL    EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR       SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)       127    1652     104     500   1308       494    115    167    163      318       58     65
v/c Ratio                  0.85    0.68    0.13    0.76    0.44     0.44   0.34   0.65   0.50     1.56     0.20   0.22
Control Delay              84.8    22.7    13.3    67.2    12.4      3.5   58.2   28.7    7.5    311.5     44.5    9.3
Queue Delay                  0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                84.8    22.7    13.3    67.2    12.4      3.5   58.2   28.7    7.5    311.5     44.5    9.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)      101     235       8     213      95        0     48     78      0    ~378        44      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)    m#194    #487    m49    m272    m298      m95      79    131     57     #565       71     35
Internal Link Dist (ft)             905                     760                    542                     1064
Turn Bay Length (ft)         300            120     300                     150                    170
Base Capacity (vph)          150   2446     773     656   2989      1113    379    520     555     204      588    536
Starvation Cap Reductn         0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn          0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Storage Cap Reductn            0      0       0       0      0         0      0      0       0       0        0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio           0.85   0.68    0.13    0.76   0.44      0.44   0.30   0.32    0.29    1.56     0.10   0.12
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




EER                                                                                                          11/7/2008
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                                   Page 1
               APPENDIX D:

Vista Grande/Canada Valley/Pinnacle View Way

         Signal Warrant Worksheet
                                                                                                          Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                     Vista Grande/Canada Valley/
Warrant 3B: Peak Hour Volume                                                                                  Pinnacle View Way
The peak hour volume warrant is satisfied when the plotted point representing the vehicles per hour
on the major street (total of both approaches) and the corresponding vehicles per hour of the higher
volume minor street approach (one direction only) for one hour (any four consecutive 15-minute
periods) of an average day falls above the curve in Figure 4-5 for the existing combination of
approach lanes.

Analysis

                                                    No of lanes
                                   Major Street                     1
                                   Minor Street                     1

                                                      Peak Hour
                                                           Vehicles Per Hour
                                          Time        Major Street   Minor street
                                                     (Sum of both (High volume
                                                     approaches)      approach)
                                         8:00 AM          807             81



                                                   FIGURE 4C-3. PEAK HOUR VOLUME WARRANT

                                   700
    MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME




                                   600
                                                                          2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                   500
           APPROACH (VPH)




                                                                               2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                   400

                                   300
                                                                                           1 LANE & 1 LANE

                                   200
                                                                                                                      *150
                                   100                                                                                *100

                                    0
                                     400           600        800       1000        1200      1400       1600      1800
                                                         MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach
 with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for
 minor street approach with one or lane.
                                                                                                         Peak Hour


                                                    Warrant             NOT MET




                                                                                                         WARRANT 3B (URBAN)
                                                                                                         Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                    Vista Grande/Canada Valley/
Warrant 3B: Peak Hour Volume                                                                                 Pinnacle View Way
The peak hour volume warrant is satisfied when the plotted point representing the vehicles per hour
on the major street (total of both approaches) and the corresponding vehicles per hour of the higher
volume minor street approach (one direction only) for one hour (any four consecutive 15-minute
periods) of an average day falls above the curve in Figure 4-5 for the existing combination of
approach lanes.

Analysis

                                                    No of lanes
                                   Major Street                     1
                                   Minor Street                     1

                                                      Peak Hour
                                                          Vehicles Per Hour
                                          Time        Major Street  Minor street
                                                     (Sum of both (High volume
                                                     approaches)     approach)
                                         5:00 PM        1,074            71



                                                   FIGURE 4C-3. PEAK HOUR VOLUME WARRANT

                                   700
    MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME




                                   600
                                                                         2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                   500
           APPROACH (VPH)




                                                                               2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                   400

                                   300
                                                                                          1 LANE & 1 LANE

                                   200
                                                                                                                     *150
                                   100                                                                               *100

                                    0
                                     400           600        800       1000       1200      1400        1600     1800
                                                         MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach
 with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for
 minor street approach with one or lane.
                                                                                                         Peak Hour


                                                    Warrant             NOT MET




                                                                                                         WARRANT 3B (URBAN)
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                         Appendix B
                         Biological Assessment
   BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT

   DAVIDON SUBDIVISION 8846
ANTIOCH, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
          CALIFORNIA




              Prepared for:

        Richard T. Loewke, AICP
          547 Wycombe Court
         San Ramon, CA 94583
            Ph. 925-831-8016
           Fax 925-931-8019




              Prepared by:

              Trish Tatarian
       Wildlife Research Associates
          1119 Burbank Avenue
         Santa Rosa, CA 95407
            Ph. 707-544-6273
            Fax 707-544-6317




            October 19, 2007
                                             BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

SUMMARY .................................................................................................................................. IV
1.0       INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................. 1
   1.1        PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................... 1
2.0       METHODS AND LIMITATIONS .................................................................................. 1
3.0       EXISTING CONDITIONS ............................................................................................... 2
   3.1        SETTING ........................................................................................................................... 2
   3.2        VEGETATION COMMUNITIES ........................................................................................... 2
   3.3        WILDLIFE HABITATS ....................................................................................................... 3
   3.4        WILDLIFE MOVEMENT CORRIDORS ................................................................................. 4
4.0       SPECIAL-STATUS SPECIES AND NATURAL COMMUNITIES ............................ 4
   4.1     SPECIAL-STATUS VEGETATION COMMUNITIES ............................................................... 5
   4.2     SPECIAL-STATUS PLANT SPECIES .................................................................................... 5
   4.3     SPECIAL-STATUS WILDLIFE SPECIES .............................................................................. 6
      4.2.1    Federal and State Threatened and Endangered Wildlife Species ........................... 7
      4.2.2    Other Special-Status Wildlife Species ..................................................................... 9
5.0       IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ............................................................. 12
6.0       LITERATURE CITED ................................................................................................... 16

                                                         LIST OF FIGURES
FIGURE              TITLE                                                                                                                PAGE

  1                 Project Location ................................................................................................ .......... 14

                                                     LIST OF APPENDICES
APPENDIX TITLE

  A                 Potentially-Occurring Special-Status Plant Species ................................................ A-1
  B                 Potentially-Occurring Special-Status Wildlife Species ........................................... B-1
SUMMARY
The Davidon Subdivision 8846 property, consisting of portions of the former R. Jacuzzi and V.
Jacuzzi Ranch properties, contains approximately 171 acres of undeveloped land located north of
Lone Tree Way, west of Neroly Road, and south of the Contra Costa Canal, south of Highway 4,
within eastern Contra Costa County, California. The northern boundary is formed by lands of the
approved Laurel Ranch subdivision (Bixby Company LLC), the eastern boundary is formed by
lands owned by the State Route 4 Bypass Authority, the western boundary by an established
residential subdivision, and the southern boundary is formed by the residential development of
the Sand Creek Ranch (Shea Homes). Northeast of the project site is the old V. Jacuzzi
homestead (owned by Deliza Ranch LLC).

Wildlife Research Associates conducted this revised biological assessment of the proposed
project to assess the potential for the presence of special-status biological resources and to
evaluate the potential biological constraints to the proposed project.

Habitats within the Davidon Subdivision 8846 property (the "subject property") have been altered
as the result of cattle grazing, orchard removal, and annual disking of non-native grasslands and
ruderal habitat.

A review of the California Natural Diversity Data Base (CNDDB 2007), revealed that a total of 6
special status vegetation communities, 31 special-status plant species and 45 special status animal
species have been reported within the region of the study area. One special-status vegetation
community, coastal and valley freshwater marsh, occurs within the project site on the
southwestern portion of the site. Please refer to Wetland Delineation, Southwest Corner of
Rolling Hills Ranch (Michael Wood Biological Consulting 2002) for further details.

None of the special-status plant species are considered to have any potential for occurrence within
the study area, due to a lack of suitable habitat, or the fact that they would have been recognizable
during previous surveys (Michael Brandman Associates 2003).

Several special status animal species either have potential to occur or occur on the property or
adjacent lands. One California special concern species, the western burrowing owl (Athene
cunicularia hypugea), is known to nest on the subject property (CNDDB 2007). One state-listed
fully-protected bird species, the white-tailed kite (Elanus caeruleus) is known to nest on the
Deliza Ranch parcel (CNDDB 2007). Two other bird species; loggerhead shrike (Lanius
ludovicianus) and American kestrel (Falco sparverius) are also known to nest on the Deliza
Ranch (CNDDB 2007) and are protected under Fish and Game Code Section 3503.5. Burrowing
owls were also documented on the Deliza Ranch on lands that were acquired and mitigated for by
the State Route 4 Bypass Authority for Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass (Loewke 2003).
Other raptor (birds of prey) species, including northern harrier (Circus cyaneus), and red-tailed
hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) are considered to have a moderate potential to occur within the study
area, based on the presence of suitable nesting habitat (grasslands and trees). Several passerine
(perching bird) species, including western meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta), may be nesting on
the site in the non-native grasslands.

Surveys were conducted in 2005 to identify the location and population of burrowing owls
utilizing the site for nesting and foraging purposes. The surveys were followed by a CDFG-
authorized banding of owls, which lead to the identification of 2 adult and 7 juvenile owls within
the southwesterly corner of the site. Based on this documentation, the project sponsor, Davidon
Homes, implemented mitigation for the loss of corresponding nesting and foraging habitat
through purchase of 19.5 burrowing owl conservation credits in the CDFG-approved Haera
Wildlife Conservation Bank, operated by Wildlands, Inc. Owls were subsequently excluded from
the southwesterly portion of the site in accordance with CDFG authorized procedures.

To avoid impacts to special-status nesting passerine and raptor species prior to project ground
breaking, we recommend the following actions:

    ·   Remove remaining suitable nesting habitat prior to the nesting season (February 1
        through August 31).
    ·   Conduct pre-construction surveys for nesting raptors and passerines. If any of the
        aforementioned species are present, construction shall be delayed until after the nesting
        season (February-August).

Please refer to the mitigation measures at the end of this document for more details.
1.0   INTRODUCTION
Wildlife Research Associates was contracted by Mr. Richard T. Loewke to prepare a biological
assessment of the approximate 171-acre Davidon Subdivision 8846 property located in the
eastern portion of the City of Antioch, Contra Costa County, California (Figure 1). The Davidon
Subdivision property consists of undeveloped land, and is located north of Lone Tree Way, west
of Neroly Road, south of the Contra Costa Canal and Highway 4, and west of the State Route 4
Bypass Segment 1. The northern boundary is formed by lands Laurel Ranch subdivision (Bixby
Company LLC), the eastern boundary is formed by lands owned by the State Route 4 Bypass
Authority. The southern boundary abuts the Sand Creek Ranch development, built in 2005 by
Shea Homes. Additional residential development occurs on the western boundary along Canada
Valley Road, and Segment 1 of the State Route 4 Bypass has recently been constructed adjoining
the easterly boundary of the project.

This report presents the updated results of a reconnaissance-level survey of the study area, a
discussion of the existing plant communities and wildlife habitats on-site, the potential for
occurrence of special-status natural communities, and special-status plant and animal species on-
site, and identifies potential impacts and mitigation measures.

 1.1 Project Description
The Davidon Subdivision project study area (APN 053-060-023 and 053-072-013) includes the
following proposed uses: (a) approximately 91 acres of residential lots, 27 acres of open space, 8
acres of community park, and 37 acres of major roads. An additional 7 acres are identified as
remainder parcels.

2.0   METHODS AND LIMITATIONS
Information on special-status plant species was compiled through a review of the California
Natural Diversity Data Base (CNDDB) (CNDDB 2007) for the Antioch North, Antioch South,
Brentwood, and Jersey Island 7.5-minute U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) topographic
quadrangles, the California Native Plant Society's (CNPS) Inventory of Rare and Endangered
Vascular Plants of California (Skinner and Pavlik 1999), the California Department of Fish and
Game's (CDFG) Special Plants List (CDFG 2007a) and the USFWS list of special-status plants
(USFWS 2007).

A list of special-status wildlife species known or expected to occur on the site was compiled
through a review of the CNDDB (CNDDB 2007), the CDFG's Special Animals List (CDFG
2007b), State and Federally Listed Endangered and Threatened Animals of California (CDFG
2007c) and the USFWS list of special-status animals (USFWS 2007).

A site visit was conducted on September 20, 2007 by Wildlife Research Associates ecologist
Trish Tatarian. The reconnaissance-level site visit was intended only as an initial evaluation of
on-site and adjacent habitat types. For the purposes of this report, the property consists of all
lands within the property boundaries (approximately 171- acres) and will be referred to as the
study area.

Focused surveys for western burrowing owl were conducted in 2005, 2006 and 2007 in the
southwest corner of the project site (see below). Focused surveys for other special-status wildlife
species were not conducted as part of this effort.
Reports reviewed for this project include the Biological Resources Assessment, Laurel Ranch
Subdivision, Contra Costa County, California (Michael Brandman Associates 2003), State Route
4 Bypass Project, Biological Assessment (Wildlife Research Associates 2003), Highway 4 Bypass
Rare Plants (Wood Biological Consulting 2003b), Wetland Delineation, Southwest Corner of
Rolling Hills Ranch (Michael Wood Biological Consulting 2002), Lindsey Basin: Biological
Constraints Analysis (Environmental Science Associates (ESA) 1994a), State Route 4 Bypass
Project, Final Environmental Impact Report (ESA 1994b), Habitat Assessment for California
Red-legged Frog (ESA) 1998a), the Draft EIR for Future Urbanization Area #2 Specific Plan
(Mundie & Associates 1995), SR 4 Bypass Segment 1 Biological Assessment, as issued by the
USFWS (USFWS 2005) and Section 1603 Agreement issued for Segment 1 of the SR 4 Bypass
by the CDFG on May 10, 2005 (CDFG 2005).

3.0   EXISTING CONDITIONS
 3.1 Setting
The study area is located within the San Francisco Bay/Delta Bioregion (Welsh 1994). This
bioregion is located within central California and is located west of the interface of two
significant freshwater systems, the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers. Habitats within this
bioregion include both mesic (moist) habitats, such as freshwater marsh, and xeric (dry) habitats,
such as open grasslands, and are typical of a Mediterranean climate. Annual winter precipitation
averages 12 inches (Mundie and Associates 1995). The weather in the Antioch area is influenced
by Mt. Diablo in the west, and the xeric regime is created by the adiabatic conditions influenced
by the mountain.

Located approximately 11.5 miles northeast of Mt. Diablo, and approximately 2.7 miles south of
the San Joaquin River, the study area is situated within the southeast corner of the City of Antioch
in eastern Contra Costa County. The study area is located within Section 23, Township 2N and
Range 2E on the Brentwood U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute topographic quadrangle
map.

Approximately 171-acres in size, the study area is, located south of the existing State Route 4
Highway, west of the new State Route 4 Bypass and north of Lone Tree Way. Ranging in
elevations between 100 to 225 feet above sea level, the lands are comprised of south- and east-
facing slopes. The central portion of the study area has been altered by off-road vehicle use.
Historically, the Davidon Subdivision study area partially supported cattle grazing, orchards and
row crops.

A small artificially created freshwater wetland occurs on the southwest corner of the study area.
A temporary 48" reinforced concrete pipe outfall once lead onto the study area, conveying water
from beneath Canada Valley Road (Michael Wood Biological Consulting 2002). This pipe has
since been converted to carry storm water to the East Antioch Creek flood control channel.

 3.2 Vegetation Communities
Although once supporting orchards in the eastern portion of the site, the dominant vegetation
community on the site is non-native grassland and comprises approximately 171 acres. This
community is typically composed of a dense to sparse cover of annual grasses, often associated
with numerous species of annual and perennial forbs. These grasslands grow actively during
winter and spring, remain dormant during summer and early fall, and persist only as seed until
conditions are favorable for germination (Holland 1986). The presence of this assemblage of non-
native, annual grasses originating in the Mediterranean region is a consequence of permanent
alterations to the once widely distributed, pristine perennial grasslands of California. The
conversion of native perennial grassland into non-native annual species has resulted from a
combination of (1) invasion by alien plant species, (2) changes in the kinds of animals and their
grazing patterns, (3) cultivation, and (4) fire regime (Heady 1988). Non-native grassland is
generally found on fine-textured, clay-rich soils, which are moist to saturated during winter rains
and dry during the summer and fall (Holland 1986). Scattered native wildflower species,
representing remnants of the original vegetation, may also be common. Non-native annual
grassland, such as found within the Rolling Hills Ranch study area, conforms to the California
annual grassland series described in Sawyer and Keeler-Wolf (1995).

Non-native annual grasses of European origin make up the dominant species. On site, these
include wild oats (Avena fatua), brome grasses (Bromus spp.), hare barley (Hordeum murinum
ssp. leporinum), and annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum), among others. Common non-native
forbs also detected include bristly ox-tongue (Picris echiodides), doveweed (Eremocarpus
setigerus), yellow star thistle (Centauria solstitialis), hoary mustard (Hirschfeldia incana),
prickly lettuce (Lactuca serriola), tarplant (Hemizonia fitchii), and curly dock (Rumex crispus),
among others. Native forbs present within this community include common fiddleneck
(Amsinckia menziesii), bellardia (Bellardia trixago) and bull thistle (Cirsium vulgare), species
common in disturbed habitats.

Seasonal wetlands occurring on the site comprise of approximately 0.17 ­acres and consist of
annual and perennial native and non-native wetland associated plant species (Michael Wood
Biological Consulting 2002). This vegetation community typically resembles a wetland
community only following the wet season or when water is present. Please refer to the Wetland
Delineation, Southern Corner of Rolling Hills Ranch (Wood Biological 2005) for further details.
This wetland falls under the classification of coastal and valley freshwater marsh.

Species observed within the freshwater marsh on site included cattails (Typha latifolia and T.
angustifolia), as well as three-square (Scirpus americanus), toad rush (Juncus bufonius), umbrella
sedge (Cyperus eragrostis) and loosestrife (Lythrum hyssopifolia) (Michael Wood Biological
Consulting 2002).

 3.3 Wildlife Habitats
Grassland habitat, including native and non-native grasslands, provides both primary habitat, such
as nesting and foraging, and secondary habitat, such as a movement corridor. Reptiles, such as
western fence lizard (Sceloporus occidentalis), can be found in this habitat, feeding on
invertebrates found within and beneath debris. This habitat also attracts seed-eating and insect-
eating species of birds and mammals. California quail (Lophortyx californicus), mourning dove
(Zenaidura macroura), and meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta) are a few seed-eaters that nest and
forage in grasslands. Insect-eaters such as scrub jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) use the habitat
for foraging only. Grasslands are important foraging grounds for aerial and ground foraging
insect-eating bat species such as myotis (Myotis spp.) and pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus). A large
number of other mammal species such as California vole (Microtus californicus), deer mouse
(Peromyscus maniculatus), Botta's pocket gopher (Thomomys bottae), California ground squirrel
(Spermophilus beecheyi) and California jackrabbit (Lepus californicus) also forage and nest
within grasslands. Small rodents attract raptors (birds of prey) such as owls that hunt at night, as
well as day-hunting raptors such as white-tailed kite (Elanus leucureus), and red-tailed hawk
(Buteo jamaicensis), among others. On the project site, three different coyote (Canis latrans)
have been observed.
Small, individual almond trees, remnants and volunteers from the previous orchards on site, once
occurred throughout the grasslands areas. In 2006, many of these trees were removed with a
subsequent removal follow-up in 2007.

The freshwater marsh on the site does not remain wet long enough to provide more than a few
weeks of wildlife habitat. Nesting birds, such as red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus)
may use the cattails for nesting and foraging. Mourning doves may use the adjacent areas for
nesting.

 3.4 Wildlife Movement Corridors
Wildlife movement includes migration (i.e., usually one way per season), inter-population
movement (i.e., long-term genetic flow) and small travel pathways (i.e., daily movement
corridors within an animal's territory). While small travel pathways usually facilitate movement
for daily home range activities such as foraging or escape from predators, they also provide
connection between outlying populations and the main corridor, permitting an increase in gene
flow among populations.

These linkages among habitat types can extend for miles between primary habitat areas and occur
on a large scale throughout California. Habitat linkages facilitate movement among populations
located in discrete areas and populations located within larger habitat areas. The mosaic of
habitats found within a large-scale landscape results in wildlife populations that consist of
discrete sub-populations comprising a large single population, which is often referred to as a
meta-population. Even where patches of pristine habitat are fragmented, such as occurs with
coastal scrub, the movement between wildlife populations is facilitated through habitat linkages,
migration corridors and movement corridors. Depending on the condition of the corridor, genetic
flow between populations may be high in frequency, thus allowing high genetic diversity within
the population, or may be low in frequency. Potentially low frequency genetic flow may lead to
complete isolation, and if pressures are strong, potential extinction (McCullough 1996; Whittaker
1998).

The undeveloped nature of the Davidon Subdivision study area provides a limited movement
corridor for common mammal species, such as coyote, within the local vicinity of the study area
in eastern portion of East Antioch. Wildlife movement is limited in this area due to the increasing
development, such as the residential development occurring on the western and southern borders
of the study area, the residential development approved and planned immediately north of the
study area, the commercial development along Lone Tree Way, and opening of the State Route 4
Bypass freeway along the entire easterly project boundary. The Antioch Creek may provide a
suitable movement corridor for small to moderate sized animals; however, Antioch Creek does
not connect to any other open space lands, and is separated from the project site by the new 6-
lane freeway.

4.0   SPECIAL-STATUS SPECIES AND NATURAL COMMUNITIES
Certain plants and wildlife species are designated as having special status due to their overall
rarity, endangerment, restricted distribution, and/or unique habitat requirements. In general,
special-status is a combination of these factors that leads to the designation of a species as
sensitive. The Federal Endangered Species Act (FESA), enacted by Congress in 1973, outlines
the procedures whereby species are listed as endangered or threatened and established a program
for the conservation of such species and the habitats in which they occur. Many individual states
have enacted their own listing procedures to provide for the protection of additional locally
sensitive biological resources. The California Endangered Species Act (CESA) of 1984 amends
the California Fish and Game Code to protect species deemed to be locally endangered and
essentially expands the number of species protected under the FESA.

The CDFG has also compiled a list of "Special Plants" (CDFG 2007a) and "Special Animals"
(CDFG 2007b) which include California Special Concern species. These designations are given
to plant species whose communities are seriously threatened, and to wildlife species whose
breeding populations are in serious decline. Although these species may be abundant elsewhere
they are considered to be at some risk of extinction in California. Although Special Concern
species are afforded no official legal status under FESA or CESA, they may receive special
consideration during the planning stages of certain development projects and adverse impacts
may be deemed significant under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

 4.1 Special-Status Vegetation Communities
Based on a review of the CNDDB(CNDDB 2007), a total of 6 special-status communities may
have potential to occur within the region, including alkali meadow, alkali seep, cis-montane alkali
marsh, coastal brackish marsh, coastal and valley freshwater marsh, and stabilized interior dunes.
Only one of these communities occurs on the site, the coast and valley freshwater marsh.

 4.2 Special-Status Plant Species
Special-status plant species include those listed as Endangered, Threatened, Rare or Candidates
for listing by the USFWS (2007), the CDFG (2007a), the CNDDB (2007) and the CNPS (Skinner
and Pavlik 1999). The CNPS listing is sanctioned by the CDFG and serves essentially as their list
of "candidate" plant species.

Based on a review of the CNDDB (CNDDB 2007), and general and personal knowledge of the
flora of eastern Contra Costa County, a total of 37 special-status plant species were reviewed, but
only 14 were determined to have at least some potential for occurring in the study area based on
the vegetation communities present (Appendix A). None of these target species were detected
during the reconnaissance survey and none are considered to occur within the study area due to
the highly disturbed nature of the site.

As discussed in the Draft EIR for Future Urbanization Area #2 Specific Plan (Mundie &
Associates 1995) and the Lindsey Basin Biological Constraints Analysis (ESA 1994), five
special-status plant species are identified as having some potential to occur within the study area.
These include diamond-petaled California poppy (Eschscholzia rhombipetala), showy madia
(Madia radiata), fragrant fritillary (Fritillaria liliacea), stinkbells (Fritillaria agrestis), and
caper-fruited tropidocarpum (Tropidocarpum capparideum). In addition, 10 other species were
evaluated for their potential to occur within the study area based on the habitat present. See
Appendix A. None of these species are considered to have any potential to be present within the
study area due to a lack of suitable habitat and the high level of disturbance.

The CNDDB records for the Antioch North, Antioch South, Brentwood, and Jersey Island
quadrangles include several special-status plant species that are known to only occur within
marsh habitat, including Delta tule pea (Lathyrus jepsonii var. jepsonii), Mason's lilaeopsis
(Lilaeopsis masonii), soft bird's beak (Cordylanthus mollis ssp. mollis), and Suisun marsh aster
(Aster lentus). However, these species are restricted to waterways of the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta system, and none are considered to have any potential to occur within the study area. The
isolated remnant freshwater marsh on site does not provide suitable habitat for these species. Two
other special-status plant species, Antioch dunes evening primrose (Oenothera deltoides ssp.
howellii) and Contra Costa wallflower (Erysimum capitatum ssp. angustatum) are also known
from the sand dunes in the vicinity of Antioch. Neither of these species is considered to have any
potential to occur within the study area due to lack of suitable habitat.

Below are descriptions of those species that are prominent in today's regulatory environment
based on the location of the study area and the habitats present on the site.

Big tarplant (Blepharizonia plumosa ssp. plumosae) - a CNPS List B annual herb that occurs in
valley/foothill grasslands on dry sites. This species may be extant in Alameda and possibly
Contra Costa counties. This species blooms from July through October and was not observed on
the site during the surveys conducted in 1995 and 2003 (Mundie and Associates 1995, Michael
Brandman Associates 2003).

Diablo helianthella (Helianthella castanea) - a federal species of concern and a CNPS List 1B
perennial herb that occurs in broadleaf upland forest, chaparral, cismontane woodland, coastal
scrub, riparian woodland, and Valley/foothill grassland. This species blooms April through June
and was not observed during the surveys conducted in 1995 and 2003 (Mundie and Associates
1995, Michael Brandman Associates 2003).

Carquinez goldenbush (Isocoma arguta) - is a CNPS List 1B species that occurs in
valley/foothill grasslands on alkaline soils. This species blooms August through December and
was not observed during the surveys conducted in 1995 and 2003 (Mundie and Associates 1995,
Michael Brandman Associates 2003).

Hoover's cryptantha (Cryptantha hooveri) - a CNPS List 1B species that occurs in
valley/foothill grasslands. This species blooms April through May and was not observed during
the surveys conducted in 1995 and 2003 (Mundie and Associates 1995, Michael Brandman
Associates 2003).

Diamond-petaled California poppy (Eschscholzia rhombipetala) - a federal specie of concern
and a CNPS List 1A annual herb that occurs in valley/foothill grassland on clay soils. This
species blooms March through April and was not observed during the surveys conducted in 1995
and 2003 (Mundie and Associates 1995, Michael Brandman Associates 2003).

 4.3 Special-Status Wildlife Species
Special-status animal species include those protected under FESA, CESA and Section 15380(d)
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The USFWS officially lists species as
either Threatened (FT), Endangered (FE), or as candidates (FC) for listing. Additional species
receive federal protection under the Bald Eagle Protection Act (e.g., bald eagle, golden eagle),
and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA). In addition, many other species are considered by
the CDFG to be Special Concern species (CSC); these are listed in Remsen (1978), Williams
(1986), and Jennings and Hayes (1994). Although such species are afforded no official legal
status, they may receive special consideration during the planning stages of certain development
projects. The CDFG further classifies some species under the following categories: "fully
protected", "protected fur-bearer", "protected amphibian", and "protected reptile". The
designation "protected" indicates that a species may not be taken or possessed except under
special permit from the CDFG; "fully protected" indicates that a species can be taken for
scientific purposes by permit only.

A total of 45 special-status animal species have potential to be present within the study area
(CDFG 2007). A complete list of wildlife species, including their potential to occur within the
study area, their legal status and habitat affinities, is included in Appendix B. Several special-
status animal species have potential to occur within the Davidon Subdivision study area,
including white-tailed kite (Elanus leucurus), American kestrel (Falco sparverius), loggerhead
shrike (Lanius ludovicianus), and other passerine species. One species, the western burrowing
owl (Athene cunicularia hypugea), is known to occur within the study area. Two species of
concern, the loggerhead shrike and white-tailed kite, were observed nesting on the V. Jacuzzi
property in 2005 (CNDDB 2007).

The following is a discussion of species that have either a low or moderate potential to occur
within the study area, and/or are species that are prominent in today's regulatory environment.
Special-status wildlife species associated with habitats not present within the study area, such as
salt marsh habitat, vernal pools, interior dunes, and freshwater marshes, are not discussed in this
report. These species include vernal pool fairy shrimp (Branchinecta lynchi), mid-valley fairy
shrimp (Branchinecta mesovalliensis), San Joaquin dune beetle (Coelus gracilis), Antioch
efferian robberfly (Efferia antiochi), red-headed sphecid wasp (Euececeris ruficeps), curved-foot
hygrotis beetle (Hygrotus curvipes), vernal pool tadpole shrimp (Lepidurus packardi), California
linderiellla (Linderiella occidentalis), molestan blister beetle (Lytta molesta), Sacramento perch
(Archoplites interruptus), delta smelt (Hypomesus transpacificus), western pond turtle (Emys
marmorata), giant garter snake (Thamnophis gigas), saltmarsh common yellow-throat
(Geothlypis trichas sinuosa), California black rail (Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus), Suisun
song sparrow (Melospiza melodia maxillaris), double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus),
and bank swallow (Riparia riparia).


4.2.1 Federal and State Threatened and Endangered Wildlife Species
San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica, SJKF), a federally listed Endangered and State
listed Threatened species, are associated with open habitats, such as arid grasslands, alkali sinks,
and open woodlands of the San Joaquin Valley and in surrounding foothills. Reports have shown
that SJKF will use the edges of orchards for denning, while foraging in adjacent grassland areas.
Kit fox are usually associated with loose textured soils that are suitable for excavating dens, with
badgers and coyotes sometimes initiating the excavation. Dens have been found on flatter slopes,
suggesting a preference for deep, friable soils. Den entrances are typically 5 to 10 inches in
diameter, with three- to six-foot ramps formed from diggings, although dens in this species'
northern range often lack ramps or other signs of use (Orloff, et al. 1986). Occurrences of
populations of SJKF are thought to be related to the availability of denning sites, particularly
natal denning sites, which are often moved several times throughout the season. Manmade
features, such as culverts and roadbeds, are occasionally used for dens. San Joaquin kit fox prey
includes kangaroo rats, black-tailed hare, and ground squirrels.

Study Area Occurrence. Ground squirrel burrows (approximately four inches in diameter
extending 2.5 feet) were observed within the study area, which could provide potentially suitable
denning habitat for San Joaquin kit fox. However, no occupied denning habitat occurs on the site.
No scat, tracks or other sign were observed on site. The closest reported sightings of San Joaquin
kit fox are located approximately nine miles to the west, at Black Diamond Mines (Bell 1992).
Surveys conducted by H.T. Harvey in 1994 (Kaiser Site), by McGinnis in 1990 and 1991 (Lone
Tree Valley) in areas east of the Black Diamond Mines produced negative results (H.T. Harvey
and Associates 1997). However, construction and operation of Segment 1 of the Highway 4
Bypass freeway and residential and commercial buildings areas along Lone Tree Way precludes
the presence of this species in this area. Therefore, no suitable habitat occurs within the study area
for San Joaquin kit fox.
Swainson's hawk (Buteo swainsonii, SH), State listed Threatened and protected under the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act and California Fish and Game Code 3503.5, once found throughout
the lowland basin of California, but are now restricted to portions of the Central Valley where
suitable nesting and foraging habitat are still available. Swainson's hawks prefer to nest along the
periphery of riparian systems, but will also use lone trees or groves of trees in agricultural fields
(CDFG 1990). Valley oak (Quercus lobata), Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii), walnut
(Juglans hindsii) and large willow (Salix sp.) are the tree species most commonly used.
Swainson's hawks require large open grasslands with abundant prey, such as small mammals and
insects. Over 85 % of SH territories in the Central Valley are in riparian systems adjacent to
suitable foraging habitats (Barnes 1994).

Study Area Occurrence. This species has been reported nesting within two miles southeast of the
Davidon Subdivision study area (CNDDB 2007). However, no suitable nesting trees occur in the
study area.

The California red-legged frog (Rana draytonii, CRF) is listed by the USFWS as Threatened
and is classified by the CDFG as a California Species of Special Concern. It breeds primarily in
ponds, but will also breed in slow moving streams, or deep pools in intermittent streams.
Inhabited ponds are typically permanent, at least three feet in depth, and contain emergent and
shoreline vegetation. Sufficient pond depth and shoreline cover are both critical, because they
provide means of escape from predators for the frogs. Non-breeding CRF have been found in
both aquatic and upland habitats. The majority of individuals prefer dense, shrubby or emergent
vegetation, closely associated with deep (>0.7 meters) still, or slow moving water. However,
some individuals use habitats that are removed from aquatic habitats, seeking cover under coyote
brush (Baccharis pilularis) and non-native grasslands (Fellers and Kleeman 2007, Tatarian 2005).
Aestivation habitat can occur in areas up to 300 feet from a stream corridor or pond and includes
natural features, such as boulders, rocks, trees, shrubs, and logs.

Study Area Occurrence: California red-legged frog is considered to have no potential to occur
within the study area, based on the lack of suitable habitat on the site or within one mile of the
site. No movement or dispersal corridors or hydrologic connection occurs between the project site
and known locations of CRF.

The California tiger salamander (Ambystoma californiense, CTS) is federally listed Threatened,
and a California Special Concern species. California tiger salamander inhabits grassland and oak
savanna habitats in the valleys and low hills of central and coastal California. Habitat conversion
has eliminated the species from much of its former range (Shaffer, et al. 1993; Fisher and Shaffer
1996). Adults spend most of their lives underground, typically in the burrows of ground squirrels
and other animals (Stebbins and Cohen 1997, Jennings 1996). During winter rains between
November and March, adults emerge from underground retreats to feed, court and breed (Loredo
and Van Vuren 1996). Ponds must contain water for at least 3.5 months to allow CTS larvae to
complete their development. Following transformation, juvenile salamanders seek refugia,
typically mammal burrows, where they remain until the next winter rains (Stebbins 1985;
Jennings 1996).

Study Area Occurrence: The California tiger salamander is considered to have no potential for
occurrence within the study area due to the lack of suitable breeding habitat on the site, together
with the site's disconnection from known occurrences. The closest report sighting of CTS occurs
approximately four miles southwest of the study area (CNDDB 2007). Residential and
commercial development occurs between the study area and the reported sighting.
Valley Elderberry Longhorn Beetle (Desmocerus californicus dimorphus, VELB), a federally-
listed Threatened species, is a red and black wood-boring insect, occurs throughout the California
Central Valley and foothills of the Coast Ranges and Sierras, between the elevations of 0 to 3,000
ft. The host plant, blue elderberry (Sambucus mexicanus), is typically associated with riparian
habitats and adjacent upland habitats. The one- to two-year life cycle of the VELB is dominated
by the larval stage of the insect, where it resides in the trunk and limbs of the blue elderberry.
Emergence of adults occurs from late March through June, and evidence of occupancy in an
elderberry is shown by the emergence hole of the adult. Today less than 4% of the historical
400,000 acres of riparian forest remain (USFWS 1990).

Study Area Occurrence: The VELB is considered to have no potential for occurrence within the
study area due to the lack of suitable habitat on the site - no elderberry trees were observed on
site.


4.2.2 Other Special-Status Wildlife Species
Bat Species (including pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus), small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum),
long-eared myotis (Myotis evotis), fringed myotis (Myotis thysanodes), Yuma myotis (Myotis
yumanensis), and long-legged myotis (Myotis volans)), are listed as federal Species of Concern
and California Special Concern species. Of the 25 bat species in California, approximately 60%
(15 species) use trees as an important part of their roosting habitat (Brown 1996). Species that use
trees as well as other structures include pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus), western small-footed
(Myotis ciliolabrum), western long-eared myotis (Myotis evotis), fringed bat (Myotis thysanodes),
and long-legged bat (Myotis volans). Day roost selection is governed by several factors, such as
temperature, roost configuration, lack of disturbance from people and predators, and proximity to
foraging habitat and/or water (Brown 1996). Trees typically used by bats require structurally
complex forests, heterogeneous age structure, large component of old trees (>25 inch DBH) and
>40 feet in height), with emergent canopy or gap providing sun exposure and snags of various
stages, although smaller trees with suitable cavities are also used.

Study Area Occurrence. No suitable roosting habitat occurs on the site for special status bat
species.

The western burrowing Owl (BUOW) is a federal and California Special Concern species and is
protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The BUOW is small, and long-legged, with dull
brown plumage that is barred and spotted with white. Burrowing owls are typically observed on
the ground, at or near a burrow, or on elevated areas, such as dirt mounds or fence posts that are
used as observational or hunting perches. Three habitat characteristics that comprise burrowing
owl habitat include openness (lack of canopy cover), short vegetation, and burrow availability.
Suitable habitat may also include areas with trees and shrubs, as long as the canopy covers less
than 30 percent of the ground surface (CDFG 1995, CBOC 1993). Vegetation height has been
identified as a limiting factor in occupancy (Coulombe 1971, Wesseman 1985). Owls have been
reported foraging up to one mile from breeding areas (Haug and Oliphant 1990). Long distance
movement of BUOW of over 53 km has been reported for birds in Carrizo Plain, near Bakersfield
(Rosier, et al 2006). Although similar movements have been reported for birds in Canada,
movement was attributed to habitat fragmentation, not experienced on the Carrizo plain (Rosier,
et al 2006).

Study Area Occurrence. This species has been observed in the southwestern corner of the study
area since 2005 (CNDDB 2007). Please refer to Table 1 for a synopsis of the number of owls
observed on the site.
      Table: Number of BUOW observed in the southwestern portion of Park Ridge Estates


   Date (Reference)        Number of BUOW               Banded             Exclusion Date
 8/5/05 (1)                        8                      no            none

 9/1 ­ 9/7/05 (2)                  9                       7            none

 9/23 ­ 9/28/05 (3)                4                       4            9/23 ­ 9/28/05

 2/6/06 ­ 3/10/06 (4)              3                       1            2/6 ­ 3/10/06

 3/19/06 (5)                       2                      no            none

 2/27/07 (5)                       1                      no            2/13/  3/15/07

 9/20/07 (5)                       1                      no            none
Notes:
1 = Wildlife Research Associates 2005.
2 = Albion Environmental 2005a.
3 = Albion Environmental 2005b.
4 = Wildlife Research Associates 2006.
5 = Wildlife Research Associates 2007a.

In August 2005, 3 adults and 5 babies, with down on their heads, were observed on the site during
focused surveys in the southwestern portion of the site (Wildlife Research Associates 2005).
Focused surveys for BUOW were conducted only in this area and not of the entire site. In a
follow-up survey in September, a total of 9 BUOW were observed in the southwestern portion
(Albion 2005a). Of these 9, two adults were banded, and 5 of the 7 juveniles were banded (Albion
2005a) at the request of CDFG.

On February 6, 2006, three BUOW, of which one was banded, were observed in the southwestern
portion of the site (Wildlife Research Associates 2006). Under coordination with CDFG, these
owls were excluded and the burrows were collapsed. No additional surveys for BUOW on the rest
of the site were conducted. No collapse of burrows were conducted in the northwestern portion of
the site. In February of 2007, one BUOW was observed in the southwest area and was excluded.
In September 2007, another owl was observed in a new set of burrows in the southwestern central
portion of the site. This owl was not excluded, nor were the burrows collapsed.

In 2006, three pairs of BUOW were observed in the northwestern portion of the site. In 2007, 4
pairs were observed (CNDDB 2007). None of the BUOW appeared to be banded.

Previous Mitigation: As part of the exclusion and banding procedure conducted in 2005 on the
Davidon project site, mitigation for the 1 pair and 1 unpaired resident owl was implemented in
August of 2006. A Purchase Agreement was completed for 19.5 credits (acres of occupied habitat
credit) purchased by Davidon for the Jacuzzi Ranch (Park Ridge) Project in Antioch in the
CDFG-approved Haera Conservation Bank, operated by Wildlands, Inc. Copies of the executed
Agreement were provided by the project sponsor to the City of Antioch and CDFG. The 19.5
conservation bank credits correspond to the adopted CDFG policy (based on the Burrowing Owl
Survey Protocol and Mitigation Guidelines report prepared in April of 1993 by the California
Burrowing Owl Consortium) of requiring 1.5 times 6.5 acres (9.75 acres) of replacement
occupied habitat for each pair or single adult bird affected (1.5 X 6.5 acres X 2 pair or single
individuals = requirement for 19.5 acres of occupied replacement habitat).



Although 7 of the 9 BUOW were banded, which allowed for tracking of those individuals, only
one owl was observed in February 2006 in the southwestern corner. After exclusion in 2006,
subsequent sightings of them have not been reported on the Park Ridge project site or in the
vicinity (Barclay, pers. comm. 2007). None of the BUOW observed on the Park Ridge Estate site
after February 2006 appeared to be banded. As a result, it is unclear where those originally
banded on the project site have moved to, and whether the birds subsequently observed on the
project site have migrated from the Bypass right-of-way or another site for which mitigation have
been provided. Additionally, due to their mobility and use of many different burrows within a
complex, the number of birds currently using the southwestern and northwestern corners of the
site is unknown.

Raptors (birds of prey) (including white-tailed kite (Elanus leucurus), American kestrel (Falco
americanus), northern harrier (Circus cyaneus) and red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis)) are
Protected under the Federal Migratory Bird treaty Act and Fish and Game Code 3503.5 and 3511.
Nest structures for raptor species range from stick nests to ground nesting. Remnant orchard trees
located individually throughout the study area once provided potential nesting habitat for a
limited number of the raptor species listed above.

Study Area Occurrence. White tailed kite and kestrels were observed nesting on the Deliza Ranch
property in 2005 (CNDDB 2007). There is a high likelihood that these birds may nest within the
same area in the future. The remaining grasslands on the site provide nesting habitat for northern
harrier.

Passerines (perching birds) (including loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicianus), Say's phoebe
(Sayornis saya), mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) and ground-nesting species, such as western
meadowlark, (Sturnella neglecta), and horned lark (Eremophila alpestris actia), are protected
under the Federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act and Fish and Game Code 3503.5. Several of these
species, including western meadowlark and horned lark, breed in open grasslands throughout the
Central Valley and adjacent foothills and along the central and southern California coast region.
These species typically prefer shorter, less dense grasses and areas with some bare ground.
California horned lark often forms flocks in the summer and winter months, foraging and roosting
in cultivated fields and along dirt roads and feeding on insects and seeds. Tree nesting species,
such as loggerhead shrike and mourning dove, prefer densely vegetated, isolated trees and shrubs
and occasionally man-made structures are typically used for nesting. Loggerhead shrikes feed on
a variety of small prey, including arthropods, small mammals, amphibians, reptiles and birds
(Yosef 1996). Since it lacks talons, it often impales prey on thorns or barbed wire. In California,
the species does not migrate and is resident year-round. Pairs maintain territories during the
breeding season and individuals maintain territories during the winter (Yosef 1996).

Study Area Occurrence. These passerines may nest throughout the study area in grasslands and in
individual trees. Loggerhead shrikes once nested within almond trees, which are annually
trimmed. Unless tree structures are removed completely, , there is a high likelihood this species
will nest on the site. The willow trees located at the freshwater marsh may also provide nesting
habitat for passerines.


5.0     IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
This section summarizes the potential temporary biological impacts from construction activities
within the study area. The analysis of these impacts is based on a single reconnaissance-level
survey of the study area, focused BUOW surveys at the southwest corner of the project site, a
review of existing databases and literature, and personal professional experience with biological
resources of the region. Potential impacts to special-status biotic resources, namely to individual
special-status animal species may occur from the proposed project. Mitigation for these biological
impacts to avoid adverse effects on the environment, are provided below.

Assessing impacts and creating mitigation measures for western burrowing owl were based on the
CDFG Staff Report on Burrowing Mitigation (CDFG 1995) which is based on the Burrowing Owl
Survey Protocol and Mitigation Guidelines created by the California Burrowing Owl Consortium
(CBOC 1993).

Impact 5.1. The San Joaquin kit fox has no potential for occurrence on-site, and based on the
presumed presence of extremely low numbers in the region and the physical distance and urban
separation of the site from known San Joaquin kit fox habitat, no suitable habitat for this species
occurs on the study site. Although ground squirrel burrows, which could provide potentially
suitable denning habitat, were observed on site, no burrows showed signs of San Joaquin kit fox
activity (i.e., large dirt ramps from excavation, cleared vegetation, tracks, scat, etc). Therefore,
construction within the grasslands would not result in any temporary direct or indirect impacts to
San Joaquin kit fox individuals and/or habitat.

This is a less-than-significant impact. No mitigation measures are required.

Impact 5.2. The proposed project could result in disturbance of potential raptor nesting habitat
on the adjacent Deliza Ranch lands and within the study area. Disturbance during the nesting
season (February 1 through August 31) may result in the potential nest abandonment and
mortality of young.

Mitigation Measure 5.2: To avoid "take" and/or further evaluate presence or absence of raptors,
the following measures are recommended:

      A. A pre-construction nesting bird survey of the individual trees and grasslands throughout
         the study area shall be performed by a qualified biologist. If no nesting birds are observed
         no further action is required and grading may occur within one week of the survey to
         prevent "take" of individual birds that may have begun nesting after the survey.
      B. If birds are observed nesting on site after February 1 it should be assumed that they are
         nesting adjacent to the site. The CDFG Central Coast Regional office allows grading to
         occur if nesting birds are observed on site, providing that a 300-foot buffer zone is
         created around the observed nest to prevent disturbance and ultimately "take" of young.

Impact 5.3. The proposed project was found in 2005 to result in the removal of occupied BUOW
nesting habitat within the non-native grasslands in the southwestern corner of the site. The
habitat area was found to have been occupied in 2005 by one pair and one individual adult owl,
along with dependent juvenile owls. Mitigation for this impact was implemented in 2006 through
the purchase of credits in a CDFG-authorized mitigation bank correlating with 19.5 acres of
occupied replacement habitat. Subsequent follow-up surveys conducted in 2006 and 2007 have
identified burrow complexes in northwestern and southwestern areas of the site which appear to
support a current population of owls. Disturbance to these areas during the nesting season
(February 1 through August 31) may result in the potential nest abandonment and mortality of
young, resulting in "take" of individuals.

Mitigation 5.3. Established procedures provide for mitigation of lost nesting BUOW habitat
either on-site of off-site. Mitigation Measure No. 2 of the CDFG Staff Report on Burrowing Owl
Mitigation (CDFG 1995) states the following:

        "To offset the loss of foraging and burrow habitat on the project site, a minimum of 6.5
        acres of foraging habitat, (calculated on a 100-m (approx. 300 ft.) foraging radius around
        the burrow) per pair or unpaired resident bird, should be acquired and permanently
        protected. The protected lands should be adjacent to occupied burrowing owl habitat and
        at a location acceptable to the Department. Protection of additional habitat acreage per
        pair or unpaired resident bird may be applicable in some instances. The California
        Burrowing Owl Consortium has also developed mitigation guidelines (CBOC 1993) that
        can be incorporated by CEQA lead agencies and which are consistent with this staff
        report."

The California Burrowing Owl Consortium Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol and Mitigation
Guidelines (CBOC 1993) state the following:

        "Off-site habitat must be suitable burrowing owl habitat, as defined in the Burrowing Owl
        Survey Protocol, and the site approved by CDFG. Land should be purchased and/or
        placed in a conservation easement in perpetuity and managed to maintain suitable habitat.
        Off-site mitigation should use one of the following ratios:
        1. Replacement of occupied habitat with occupied habitat: 1.5 times 6.5 (9.75) acres
             per pair or single bird.
        2. Replacement of occupied habitat with habitat contiguous to currently occupied
             habitat: 2 times 6.5 (13.0) acres per pair or single bird.
        3. Replacement of occupied habitat with suitable unoccupied habitat: 3 times 6.5
             (19.5) acres per pair or single bird."

Based on the foregoing, the project sponsor entered into discussions with the City of Antioch
(Lead Agency under CEQA) and CDFG in 2005-2006 to consider the feasibility of using a
minimum of 13 acres (6.5 acres X 2 pair or unpaired individual owls) of the on-site open space
area as a protected mitigation site. Following review and comment from the City and CDFG
staff, it was determined that a number of long-term operational constraints made the on-site
mitigation option less desirable than an off-site option. As a result, 19.5 credits for occupied
habitat within a CDFG-authorized mitigation bank at an off-site location were purchased (1.5 X
6.5 acres X 2 pair or unpaired individual owls) and reported as mitigation for loss of occupied
nesting habitat identified in 2005-2006 in the southwestern corner. No exclusion or eradication
effort was conducted of the potential habitat (ground squirrel burrows) subsequently identified in
the NW corner of the entire site. As a result, these areas currently remain available for use by
BUOW.
Impact 5.4. The proposed project could result in "take" of individuals or pairs of BUOW
nesting within the Park Ridge Estates project site.

Mitigation 5.4. To avoid "take" of individual BUOW nesting on site, the following measures are
recommended:

    A. If ground disturbance must occur within the nesting season (February 1 to August 31), a
       pre-construction nesting burrowing owl survey following CDFG protocols should be
       performed by a qualified biologist prior to disturbance. Protocol surveys include
       conducting four crepuscular (early morning or late evening) surveys. If owls are found
       but no courtship behavior is observed then exclusion of the owls from the burrows may
       occur. Any early season active nests, as shown by courtship behavior or food transfers
       between adults, must not be disturbed until the young have fledged.
    B. Ground squirrel burrows within the area of proposed ground disturbance will have
       exclusion devises put on them for 48 hours to ensure any owls have left the burrows
       before excavation.
    C. All burrows with active nests with owls exhibiting courtship behavior or food transference
       shall be identified by flagging and be protected by a no disturbance buffer zone of 75
       meters (approximately 250 feet). No further disturbance to these areas shall occur until the
       young have fledged and exclusion has been implemented.
    D. Areas of bare ground or with grass less than six inches in height may attract burrowing
       owls during the winter season. If construction is to occur after a period of inactivity and
       soil is left barren, a burrowing owl habitat evaluation to determine occupancy of the site
       should be conducted prior to ground disturbance the following season.

Impact 5. 5. The proposed project could result in the removal of potential passerine nesting
habitat in the non-native grasslands and trees along the southern and northern boundaries,
although no focused surveys for nesting passerines have been conducted within the study area.
Disturbance during the nesting season may result in the potential nest abandonment and mortality
of young.

Mitigation Measure 5.5: The BUOW Conservation Area will provide nesting passerine habitat.
To avoid "take" and/or further evaluate presence or absence of passerines, the following measures
are recommended:

            · Grading within the grasslands should be conducted outside the nesting season,
            which occurs between approximately February 1 and August 15.
            · If grading before February 1 is infeasible and groundbreaking must occur within
            the breeding season, a pre-construction nesting bird survey of the grasslands and
            adjacent trees shall be performed by a qualified biologist. If no nesting birds are
            observed no further action is required and grading shall occur within one week of the
            survey to prevent "take" of individual birds that may have begun nesting after the
            survey.
            · If birds are observed on site after February 1 it will be assumed that they are
            nesting on site or adjacent to the site and ground breaking will have to be delayed
            until after the young have fledged, as determined by bird surveys by a qualified
            biologist, or after the nesting season.
            · The CDFG Central Coast Regional office does allow grading to occur if nesting
            birds are observed on site, providing that a 100 foot buffer zone is created around the
observed nest. Because nests may occur in the middle of the grading area, this
method is not advised.
· Nesting bird surveys for raptors and passerines may occur at the same time, after
February 1.
6.0   LITERATURE CITED
ALBION ENVIRONMENTAL. 2005A. SUMMARY REPORT ON BURROWING OWL BANDING FROM
THE DAVIDON SITE IN ANTIOCH, CA. LETTER REPORT PREPARED FOR RICHARD LOEWKE.
SEPTEMBER 12.

ALBION ENVIRONMENTAL. 2005B. SUMMARY REPORT ON BURROWING OWL EVICTION FROM
THE DAVIDON/SHEA PROJECT SITE IN ANTIOCH, CA. LETTER REPORT PREPARED FOR JACK HALL,
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER, SHEA HOMES. OCTOBER 4.

BARNES, R. 1994. RIPARIAN FORESTS: RIVERS OF LIFE. ON BEHALF OF SONGBIRDS, POINT
REYES BIRD OBSERVATORY.

CALIFORNIA BURROWING OWL CONSORTIUM. 1993. BURROWING OWL SURVEY PROTOCOL AND
MITIGATION GUIDELINES. APRIL.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 1988A. A GUIDE TO WILDLIFE HABITATS
OF CALIFORNIA. EDITORS, K.E. MAYER AND W.F. LAUDENSLAYER, JR.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 1988B. CALIFORNIA'S WILDLIFE -
AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILE. VOLUME I. CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME. EDITORS,
ZEINER, D.C., W.F. LAUDENSLAYER, JR., AND K.E. MAYER.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 1990. SWAINSON'S HAWK
INFORMATION.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 1992. MITIGATION GUIDELINES FOR
SWAINSON'S HAWK (BUTEO SWAINSONI) IN THE CENTRAL VALLEY OF CALIFORNIA.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 1995. STAFF REPORT ON BURROWING
OWL MITIGATION. SACRAMENTO, CA. SEPTEMBER 28.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG 2005). 1602 LAKE AND STREAMBED
ALTERATION AGREEMENT. NOTIFICATION NUMBER 1600-2004-0345-3. TECHNICAL LETTER
REPORT PREPARED FRO DALE DENNIS, STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS AUTHORITY.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 2007A. SPECIAL VASCULAR PLANTS,
BRYOPHYTES, AND LICHENS LIST. NATURAL DIVERSITY DATA BASE, HABITAT CONSERVATION
DIVISION. OCTOBER.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 2007B. SPECIAL ANIMALS. NATURAL
DIVERSITY DATA BASE, WILDLIFE AND HABITAT DATA ANALYSIS BRANCH. OCTOBER.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME (CDFG). 2007C. STATE AND FEDERALLY LISTED
ENDANGERED, THREATENED, AND RARE PLANTS OF CALIFORNIA. NATURAL DIVERSITY DATA
BASE, WILDLIFE AND HABITAT DATA ANALYSIS BRANCH. JANUARY.

CALIFORNIA NATURAL DIVERSITY DATA BASE (CNDDB). 2007. ANTIOCH NORTH, ANTIOCH
SOUTH, BRENTWOOD, AND JERSEY ISLAND 7.5-MINUTE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (USGS)
TOPOGRAPHIC QUADRANGLES. SEPTEMBER 18.
COULOMBE, H. 1971. BEHAVIOR AND POPULATION ECOLOGY OF THE BURROWING OWL,
SPEOTYTO CUNICULARIA, IN THE IMPERIAL VALLEY OF CALIFORNIA. THE CONDOR 73: 162-176.

DUNN, E. M. 1940. THE RACES OF AMBYSTOMA TIGRINUM. COPEIA 1940, NO. 3, 154-162.

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATES (ESA). 1994A. LINDSEY BASIN: BIOLOGICAL
CONSTRAINTS ANALYSIS. PREPARED FOR THE CONTRA COSTA FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER
CONSERVATION DISTRICT. JUNE.

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATES (ESA). 1994B. STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS PROJECT, FINAL
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT. PREPARED FOR THE STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS AUTHORITY.

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATES (ESA). 1999. STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS BIOLOGICAL
ASSESSMENT. PREPARED FOR THE STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS AUTHORITY. JANUARY.

HAUG, E.A. AND L.W. OLIPHANT. 1990. MOVEMENTS, ACTIVITY PATTERNS AND HABITAT USE
OF BURROWING OWLS IN SASKATCHEWAN. JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT 54(1): 27-35.

HEADY, H. F. 1988. VALLEY GRASSLAND. PAGES 491­514 IN M. BARBOUR AND J. MAJOR,
EDITORS. TERRESTRIAL VEGETATION OF CALIFORNIA. CALIFORNIA NATIVE PLANT SOCIETY,
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, USA.

JENNINGS, M.R. AND M.P. HAYES. 1994. AMPHIBIAN AND REPTILE SPECIES OF SPECIAL
CONCERN IN CALIFORNIA. PREPARED FOR THE CALIF. DEPT. OF FISH AND GAME INLAND
FISHERIES DIV. RANCHO CORDOVA, CALIF. NOVEMBER 1. 255 PP.

LOEWKE, R.T. 2003. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCE ANALYSIS, STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS SEGEMNTS
1&3, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA. PREPARED FOR THE STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS
AUTHORITY. AUGUST 20.

LOREDO, I., D. VAN VUREN AND M. MORRISON. 1996. HABITAT USE AND MIGRATION BEHAVIOR
OF THE CALIFORNIA TIGER SALAMANDER. JOURNAL OF HERPETOLOGY VOL 30 (2): 282-285.

LOREDO, I., AND D. VAN VUREN. 1996. REPRODUCTIVE ECOLOGY OF A POPULATION OF THE
CALIFORNIA TIGER SALAMANDER. COPEIA 1996(4), PP. 895-901.

MADISON, D.M. AND L. FARRAND. 1998. HABITAT USE DURING BREEDING AND EMIGRATION IN
RADIO-IMPLANTED TIGER SALAMANDERS, AMBYSTOMA TIGRINUM. COPEIA 1998(2): 402-410.

MICHEAL BRANDMAN ASSOCIATES. 2003. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT, LAUREL
RANCH SUBDIVISION, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA. PREPARED FOR BIXBY RANCH
COMPANY, LLC. AUGUST 31.

MICHAEL WOOD BIOLOGICAL CONSULTING. 2002. WETLAND DELINEATION, SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF ROLLING HILLS RANCH. PREPARED FOR MR. RICHARD T. LOEWKE. SEPTEMBER 13.

MUNDIE & ASSOCIATES 1995. FUTURE URBANIZATION AREA #2 SPECIFIC PLAN. DRAFT EIR.

ORLOFF, S., F. HALL, AND L. SPEIGAL. 1986. DISTRIBUTION AND HABITAT REQUIREMENTS OF
THE SAN JOAQUIN KIT FOX IN THE NORTHERN EXTREME OF THEIR RANGE. TRANSACTIONS OF
THE WESTERN SECTION OF THE WILDLIFE SOCIETY 22:60-70.
PLUMPTON, D. AND R.S. LUTZ. 1993. NESTING HABITAT USE BY BURROWING OWLS IN
COLORADO. JOURNAL OF RAPTOR RESEARCH 27(4):175-179.

ROSIER, R.J., N. A. RONAN, AND D. K. ROSENBERG. 2006. POST-BREEDING DISPERSAL OF
BURROWING OWLS IN AN EXTENSIVE CALIFORNIA GRASSLAND. AM. MIDL. NAT. 155:162­167.

SAWYER, J.O. AND T. KEELER-WOLF. 1995. A MANUAL OF CALIFORNIA VEGETATION.
CALIFORNIA NATIVE PLANT SOCIETY, SACRAMENTO. 471 PP.

STEBBINS, R. C. 1985. A FIELD GUIDE TO WESTERN REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. HOUGHTON
MIFFLIN COMPANY.

TATARIAN, P. 2005. MOVEMENT PATTERNS OF THE CALIFORNIA RED-LEGGED FROG (RANA
AURORA DRAYTONII) IN A CALIFORNIA INLAND ENVIRONMENT. MASTERS THESIS. SONOMA
STATE UNIVERSITY.

TRENHAM, P.C., H. B. SHAFFER, W. D. KOENIG, AND M.R. STROMBERG. 2000. LIFE HISTORY
AND DEMOGRAPHIC VARIATION IN THE CALIFORNIA TIGER SALAMANDER (AMBYSTOMA
CALIFORNIENSE). COPEIA (2): 365-377.

TRENHAM, P.C. 2001. TERRESTRIAL HABITAT USE BY ADULT CALIFORNIA TIGER
SALAMANDERS. J. OF HERPETOLOGY VOL.35 (2): 343-346.

U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE (USFWS). 1990. BIOLOGICAL OPINION FOR THE FRIANT
DIVISION WATER CONTRACT RENEWALS. SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.

U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE (USFWS) 1997. FORMAL PROGRAMMATIC CONSULTATION
PERMITTING PROJECTS WITH RELATIVELY SMALL EFFECTS ON THE VALLEY ELDERBERRY
LONGHORN BEETLE WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THE SACRAMENTO FIELD OFFICE, CALIFORNIA
(ADMINISTRATION FILE # 572.9/9821). MARCH 11.

U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE (USFWS) 1999. FORMAL CONSULTATION ON STATE ROUTE 4
(CORPS IDENTIFICATION NO. 199800680), CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA. PREPARED
FOR JIM MONROE, CHIEF, DELTA OFFICE, U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS. APRIL 16.

U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE (USFWS). 2005. FORMAL ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSULTATION ON THE EFFECTS OF THE PROPOSED SEGMENT 1 OF THE STATE ROUTE 4 BYPASS
PROJECT, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA (CORPS FILE NUMBER 200300617). TECHNICAL
REPORT SENT TO MICHAEL FINAN, CHIEF DELTA OFFICE, U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS.

WELSH, H. 1994. BIOREGIONS: AN ECOLOGICAL AND EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE AND A
PROPOSAL FOR CALIFORNIA. CALIFORNIA FISH AND GAME (80) 3:97-124.

WESEMANN, T. 1985. FACTORS INFLUENCING THE DISTRIBUTION OF BURROWING OWL (ATHENE
CUNICULARIA) IN CAPE CORAL, FLORIDA. SYMPOSIUM ON THE BIOLOGY, STATUS, AND
MANAGEMENT OF OWLS. SESSION 11. RAPTOR RESEARCH FOUNDATION, INC.

WILDLIFE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES. 2005. BIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT DAVIDON SUBDIVISION
8846, ANTIOCH, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA. PREPARED FOR RICHARD LOEWKE.
AUGUST 22.
WILDLIFE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 2006. STATUS REPORT OF BURROWING OWL
MONITORING/FIELD WORK AT PARK RIDGE PROPERTY ­ ANTIOCH. LETTER REPORT PREPARED
FOR STEVE ABBS, DAVIDON HOMES. MARCH 30.

WILDLIFE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 2007A. 2007 BURROWING OWL SURVEY AND EXCLUSION ­
PARK RIDGE, CITY OF ANTIOCH, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY. LETTER REPORT PREPARED FOR
STEVE ABBS, DAVIDON HOMES AND JANICE GAN, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND
GAME. FEBRUARY 27.

WILDLIFE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 2007B. 2007 BURROWING OWL SURVEY AND MONITORING ­
PARK RIDGE, CITY OF ANTIOCH, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY. LETTER REPORT PREPARED FOR
STEVE ABBS, DAVIDON HOMES AND JANICE GAN, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND
GAME. MAY 2.

WOOD BIOLOGICAL CONSULTING. 2003B. HIGHWAY 4 BYPASS RARE PLANTS. TECHNICAL
REPORT PREPARED FRO MR. DICK LOEWKE. JUNE 25.

YOSEF, R. 1996. LOGGERHEAD SHRIKE (LANIUS LUDOVICIANUS). IN A. POOLE AND F. GILL
[EDS], THE BIRDS OF NORTH AMERICA, NO. 231. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILADELPHIA; AND AMER.
ONITHOL. UNION, WASHINGTON, D. C.

ZARN, M. 1974. BURROWING OWL (SPEOTYTO CUNICULARIA HYPUGAEA): REPORT NO. 11.
HABITAT MANAGEMENT SERIES FOR UNIQUE OR ENDANGERED SPECIES. BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT. REPORT T-N-250.



Personal Communication
Barclay, J. 2007. Biologist with Albion Environmental. Communication with Trish Tatarian,
   Wildlife Research Associates. October.
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                        Appendix C
                Burrowing Owl Banding Report
                                                                                 1414 SOQUEL AVENUE, SUITE 205
  ALBION ENVIRONMENTAL, INC.                                                     SANTA CRUZ, CALIFORNIA 95062
  NATURAL   AND   CULTURAL RESOURCES CONSULTANTS
                                                                                 TELEPHONE (831) 469-9128
                                                                                 FACSIMILE (831) 469-9137



September 12, 2005

Richard T. Loewke, AICP
Urban & Environmental Planning
55 Oak Trail Court
Alamo, CA 94507

Dear Mr. Loewke:

I am writing with a final report on burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) banding at the Davidon site in
Antioch. The Davidon site is located immediately east of Canada Valley Road approximately 0.4
miles north of Lone Tree Way in the City of Antioch, Contra Costa County. The site supports mixed
herbaceous vegetation ranging up to 5 feet tall in places. Owls were using burrows on the east-facing
slope of a small hill that extends east from Canada Valley Road just south of a short dead-end spur on
the as-yet-to-be-constructed Jacuzzi Drive. I also observed owls roosting at burrows in a low ridge of
rocky debris approximately 150 feet southeast of the small hill and at a small burrow complex on the
opposite slope approximately 400 feet to the east.

I saw a total of 9 burrowing owls, 2 adults and 7 juveniles, when I briefly monitored their behavior
and evaluated opportunities to capture them on August 29th and 30th . I did not observe the owls
retreating down burrows, either voluntarily or when provoked, so there were no opportunities to
capture them using one-way doors and enclosures. I also closely monitored the owls throughout the
day on September 2 and did not see them retreat down burrows for extended periods. Based on their
behavior I decided to capture them for banding using other raptor traps including a bow net, dho-
gazza and bal-chatri.

We (myself or my employee Lindsay Harman) spent 4 evenings trapping - September 1, 2, 6 and 7,
2005. We captured and banded a total of 7 burrowing owls; 2 adults and 7 juveniles. Age was
determined by molt and plumage condition. Below are the band numbers, ages and banding dates.
Each captured owl was banded with a standard bird band issued by the U.S. Geological Survey Bird
Banding Laboratory (i.e., federal band) and a red metal color band with alphanumeric code
manufactured by Acraft Sign and Nameplate Company. The red color bands, which can be read with
binoculars or spotting scope, enable individual identification without having the bird in the hand as is
necessary to read the federal band number. Each owl was released immediately after it was banded
and no owls were injured during trapping.

Federal Band No.           Color Band No. (type 1*)               Age               Date Banded
934-13876                  Red VK                                 Juvenile          9/1/05
934-13877                  Red WK                                 Juvenile          9/2/05
934-13878                  Red XK                                 Adult             9/6/05
934-13879                  Red YK                                 Juvenile          9/6/05
934-13880                  Red AM                                 Juvenile          9/7/05
934-13881                  Red BM                                 Juvenile          9/7/05
934-13882                  Red CM                                 Adult             9/7/05
 *Type 1 refers to the orientation of the characters on the color band, in this case side-by-side.
As required by my federal and state authorizations to capture and band burrowing owls I will be
submitting these banding records to the Bird Banding Laboratory and to the Department of Fish and
Game with my annual report of activities. I have also submitted a field observation form of my
burrowing owl observations and bandings to the California Natural Diversity Database.

Thank you for asking me to band these burrowing owls. Please contact me if you have any questions
about my report.


Sincerely,




Jack Barclay
Ornithologist, Vice-President
Master Banding Permit No. 23371
CDFG Burrowing Owl Research MOU June 9, 2000
CDFG Scientific Collecting Permit No. 004413
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                        Appendix D
                Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol
                    & Mitigation Guidelines
BURROWING OWL SURVEY PROTOCOL
   AND MITIGATION GUIDELINES




              Prepared by:

 The California Burrowing Owl Consortium




                April 1993
                                      INTRODUCTION


The California Burrowing Owl Consortium developed the following Survey Protocol and
Mitigation Guidelines to meet the need for uniform standards when surveying burrowing owl
(Speotyto cunicularia) populations and evaluating impacts from development projects. The
California Burrowing Owl Consortium is a group of biologists in the San Francisco Bay area
who are interested in burrowing owl conservation. The following survey protocol and mitigation
guidelines were prepared by the Consortium's Mitigation Committee. These procedures offer
a decision-making process aimed at preserving burrowing owls in place with adequate habitat.

California's burrowing owl population is clearly in peril and if declines continue unchecked the
species may qualify for listing. Because of the intense pressure for development of open, flat
grasslands in California, resource managers frequently face conflicts between owls and
development projects. Owls can be affected by disturbance and habitat loss, even though there
may be no direct impacts to the birds themselves or their burrows. There is often inadequate
information about the presence of owls on a project site until ground disturbance is imminent.
When this occurs there is usually insufficient time to evaluate impacts to owls and their habitat.
The absence of standardized field survey methods impairs adequate and consistent impact
assessment during regulatory review processes, which in turn reduces the possibility of effective
mitigation.

These guidelines are intended to provide a decision-making process that should be implemented
wherever there is potential for an action or project to adversely affect burrowing owls or the
resources that support them. The process begins with a four-step survey protocol to document
the presence of burrowing owl habitat, and evaluate burrowing owl use of the project site and
a surrounding buffer zone. When surveys confirm occupied habitat, the mitigation measures are
followed to minimize impacts to burrowing owls, their burrows and foraging habitat on the site.
These guidelines emphasize maintaining burrowing owls and their resources in place rather than
minimizing impacts through displacement of owls to an alternate site.

Each project and situation is different and these procedures may not be applicable in some
circumstances. Finally, these are not strict rules or requirements that must be applied in all
situations. They are guidelines to consider when evaluating burrowing owls and their habitat,
and they suggest options for burrowing owl conservation when land use decisions are made.

Section 1 describes the four phase Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol. Section 2 contains the
Mitigation Guidelines. Section 3 contains a discussion of various laws and regulations that
protect burrowing owls and a list of references cited in the text.

We have submitted these documents to the California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG)
for review and comment. These are untested procedures and we ask for your comments on
improving their usefulness.



 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                        California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                     April 1993
                                                 i
                 SECTION 1 BURROWING OWL SURVEY PROTOCOL


PHASE I: HABITAT ASSESSMENT

The first step in the survey process is to assess the presence of burrowing owl habitat on the
project site including a 150-meter (approx. 500 ft.) buffer zone around the project boundary
(Thomsen 1971, Martin 1973).

Burrowing Owl Habitat Description
Burrowing owl habitat can be found in annual and perennial grasslands, deserts, and scrublands
characterized by low-growing vegetation (Zarn 1974). Suitable owl habitat may also include
trees and shrubs if the canopy covers less than 30 percent of the ground surface. Burrows are
the essential component of burrowing owl habitat: both natural and artificial burrows provide
protection, shelter, and nests for burrowing owls (Henny and Blus 1981). Burrowing owls
typically use burrows made by fossorial mammals, such as ground squirrels or badgers, but also
may use man-made structures, such as cement culverts; cement, asphalt, or wood debris piles;
or openings beneath cement or asphalt pavement.

Occupied Burrowing Owl Habitat
Burrowing owls may use a site for breeding, wintering, foraging, and/or migration stopovers.
Occupancy of suitable burrowing owl habitat can be verified at a site by an observation of at
least one burrowing owl, or, alternatively, its molted feathers, cast pellets, prey remains,
eggshell fragments, or excrement at or near a burrow entrance. Burrowing owls exhibit high
site fidelity, reusing burrows year after year (Rich 1984, Feeney 1992). A site should be
assumed occupied if at least one burrowing owl has been observed occupying a burrow there
within the last three years (Rich 1984).

The Phase II burrow survey is required if burrowing owl habitat occurs on the site. If
burrowing owl habitat is not present on the project site and buffer zone, the Phase II burrow
survey is not necessary. A written report of the habitat assessment should be prepared (Phase
IV), stating the reason(s) why the area is not burrowing owl habitat.


PHASE II: BURROW SURVEY

    1. A survey for-burrows and owls should be conducted by walking through suitable
       habitat over the entire project site and in areas within 150 meters (approx 500 ft.) of
       the project impact zone. This 150-meter buffer zone is included to account for
       adjacent burrows and foraging habitat outside the project area and impacts from
       factors such as noise and vibration due to heavy equipment which could impact
       resources outside the project area.




Burrowing Owl Survey                                                 California Burrowing Owl Consortium
and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                     April 1993
                                                1
   2. Pedestrian survey transects should be spaced to allow 100 percent visual coverage of
      the ground surface. The distance between transect center lines should be no more
      than 30 meters (approx. 100 ft.), and should be reduced to account for differences
      in terrain, vegetation density, and ground surface visibility. To efficiently survey
      projects larger than 100 acres, it is recommended that two or more surveyors conduct
      concurrent surveys. Surveyors should maintain a minimum distance of 50 meters
      (approx. 160 ft.) from any owls or occupied burrows. It is important to minimize
      disturbance near occupied burrows during all seasons.

   3. If burrows or burrowing owls are recorded on the site, a map should be prepared of
      the burrow concentration areas. A breeding season survey and census (Phase III) of
      burrowing owls is the next step required.

   4. Prepare a report (Phase IV) of the burrow survey stating whether or not burrows are
      present.

   5. A preconstruction survey may be required by project-specific mitigations no more
       than 30 days prior to ground disturbing activity.


PHASE III: BURROWING OWL SURVEYS, CENSUS AND MAPPING

If the project site contains burrows that could be used by burrowing owls, then survey efforts
should be directed towards determining owl presence on the site. Surveys in the breeding season
are required to describe if, when, and how the site is used by burrowing owls. If no owls are
observed using the site during the breeding season, a winter survey is required.

Survey Methodology
A complete burrowing owl survey consists of four site visits. During the initial site visit
examine burrows for owl sign and map the locations of occupied burrows. Subsequent
observations should be conducted from as many fixed points as necessary to provide visual
coverage of the site using spotting scopes or binoculars. It is important to minimize disturbance
near occupied burrows during all seasons. Site visits must be repeated on four separate days.
Conduct these visits from two hours before sunset to one hour after or from one hour before to
two hours after sunrise. Surveys should be conducted during weather that is conducive to
observing owls outside their burrows. Avoid surveys during heavy rain, high winds (> 20
mph), or dense fog.

Nesting Season Survey. The burrowing owl nesting season begins as early as February 1 and
continues through August 31 (Thomsen 1971, Zam 1974). The timing of nesting activities may
vary with latitude and climatic conditions. If possible, the nesting season survey should be
conducted during the peak of the breeding season, between April 15 and July 15. Count and
map all burrowing owl sightings, occupied burrows, and burrows with owl sign. Record
numbers of pairs and juveniles, and behavior such as courtship and copulation. Map the
approximate territory boundaries and foraging areas if known.

Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                        California Burrowing Owl Consortium
and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                     April 1993
                                                2
  Survey for Winter Residents (non-breeding owls). Winter surveys should be conducted
  between December 1 and January 31, during the period when wintering owls are most likely to
  be present. Count and map all owl sightings, occupied burrows, and burrows with owl sign.

  Surveys Outside the Winter and Nesting Seasons. Positive results, (i.e., owl sightings)- outside
  of the above survey periods would be adequate to determine presence of owls on site. However,
  results of these surveys may be inadequate for mitigation planning because the numbers of owls
  and their pattern of distribution may change during winter and nesting seasons. Negative results
  during surveys outside the above periods are not conclusive proof that owls do not use the site.

  Preconstruction Survey. A preconstruction survey may be required by project-specific
  mitigations and should be conducted no more than 30 days prior to ground disturbing activity.


  PHASE IV: RESOURCE SUMMARY, WRITTEN REPORT

  A report should be prepared for CDFG that gives the results of each Phase of the survey
  protocol, as outlined below.

Phase I: Habitat Assessment

      1. Date and time of visit(s) including weather and visibility conditions; methods of
         survey.

      2. Site description including the following information: location, size, topography,
          vegetation communities, and animals observed during visit(s).

      3. An assessment of habitat suitability for burrowing owls and explanation.

      4. A map of the site.

  Phase II: Burrow Survey

       1. Date and time of visits including weather and visibility conditions; survey methods
          including transect spacing.

       2. A more detailed site description should be made during this phase of the survey
           protocol including a partial plant list of primary vegetation, location of nearest
           freshwater (on or within one mile of site), animals observed during transects.

       3. Results of survey transects including a map showing the location of concentrations
           of burrow(s) (natural or artificial) and owl(s), if present.




   Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                       California Burrowing Owl Consortium
   and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                    April 1993
                                                  3
Phase III: Burrowing Owl Surveys, Census and Mapping

   1. Date and time of visits including weather and visibility conditions; survey methods
      including transect spacing.

   2. Report and map the location of all burrowing owls and owl sign. Burrows occupied
      by owl(s) should be mapped indicating the number of owls at each burrow. Tracks,
      feathers, pellets, or other items (prey remains, animal scat) at burrows should also
      be reported.

   3. Behavior of owls during the surveys should be carefully recorded (from a distance)
    and reported. Describe and map areas used by owls during the surveys. Although
       not required, all behavior is valuable to document including feeding, resting,
       courtship, alarm, territorial, parental, or juvenile behavior.

   4. Both winter and nesting season surveys should be summarized. If possible include
       information regarding productivity of pairs, seasonal pattern of use, and include a
       map of the colony showing territorial boundaries and home ranges.

   5. The historical presence of burrowing owls on site should be documented, as well as
       the source of such information (local bird club, Audubon society, other biologists,
       etc.).




 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                     California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                   April 1993

                                             4
                                    Burrowing: Owl Survey Protocol
                                                   April 1993

                                                         Phase I
                                                  Habitat Assessment
                                                 Project Area Plus 150 m




                               Phase II
                           Burrow Survey
                       project Area Plus 150 m
                          l100% coverage of
                            suitable habitat
                          lmaximum 30 m
                           transect spacing




   Figure 1.
Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                              California Burrowing Owl Consortium
and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                           April 1993
                                                             5
               SECTION 2 BURROWING OWL MITIGATION GUIDELINES


The objective of these mitigation guidelines is to minimize impacts to burrowing owls and the
resources that support viable owl populations. These guidelines are intended to provide a
decision-making process that should be implemented wherever there is potential for an action
or project to adversely affect burrowing owls or their resources. The process begins with a
four-step survey protocol (see Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol) to document the presence of
burrowing owl habitat, and evaluate burrowing owl use of the project site and a surrounding
buffer zone. When surveys confirm occupied habitat, the mitigation measures described below
are followed to minimize impacts to burrowing owls, their burrows and foraging habitat on the
site. These guidelines emphasize maintaining burrowing owls and their resources in place rather
than minimizing impacts through displacement of owls to an alternate site.

Mitigation actions should be carried out prior to the burrowing owl breeding season, generally
from February 1 through August 31 (Thomsen 1971, Zarn 1974). The timing of nesting activity
may vary with latitude and climatic conditions. Project sites and buffer zones with suitable
habitat should be resurveyed to ensure no burrowing owls have occupied them in the interim
period between the initial surveys and ground disturbing activity. Repeat surveys should be
conducted not more than 30 days prior to initial ground disturbing activity.


DEFINITION OF IMPACTS

     1. Disturbance or harassment within 50 meters (approx. 160 ft.) of occupied burrows.

    2. Destruction of burrows and burrow entrances. Burrows include structures such as
        culverts, concrete slabs and debris piles that provide shelter to burrowing owls.

    3. Degradation of foraging habitat adjacent to occupied burrows.


GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

     1. Occupied burrows should not be disturbed during the nesting season, from February
        1 through August 31, unless the Department of Fish and Game verifies that the birds
        have not begun egg-laying and incubation or that the juveniles from those burrows
        are foraging independently and capable of independent survival at an earlier date.

     2. A minimum of 6.5 acres of foraging habitat, calculated on a 100-m (approx. 300 ft.)
        foraging radius around the natal burrow, should be maintained per pair (or unpaired
        resident single bird) contiguous with burrows occupied within the last three years
        (Rich 1984, Feeney 1992). Ideally, foraging habitat should be retained in a long-term
        conservation easement.


 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                       California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                     April 1993
                                                6
   3. When destruction of occupied burrows is unavoidable, burrows should be enhanced
      (enlarged or cleared of debris) or created (by installing artificial burrows) in a ratio
      of 1:1 in adjacent suitable habitat that is contiguous with the foraging habitat of the
      affected owls.

   4. If owls must be moved away from the disturbance area, passive relocation (see
       below) is preferable to trapping. A time period of at least one week is recommended
       to allow the owls to move and acclimate to alternate burrows.

   5. The mitigation committee recommends monitoring the success of mitigation programs
      as required in Assembly Bill 3180. A monitoring plan should include mitigation
      success criteria and an annual report should be submitted to the California
      Department of Fish and Game.


AVOIDANCE

Avoid Occupied Burrows
No disturbance should occur within 50 m (approx. 160 ft.) of occupied burrows during the non-
breeding Season of September 1 through January 31 or within 75 m (approx. 250 ft.) during the
breeding Season of February 1 through August 31. Avoidance also requires that a minimum of
6.5 acres of foraging habitat be preserved contiguous with occupied burrow sites for each pair
of breeding burrowing owls (with or without dependent young) or single unpaired resident bird
(Figure 2).


MITIGATION FOR UNAVOIDABLE IMPACTS

On-site Mitigation
On-site passive relocation should be implemented if the above avoidance requirements cannot
be met. Passive relocation is defined as encouraging owls to move from occupied burrows to
alternate natural or artificial burrows that are beyond 50 m from the impact zone and that are
within or contiguous to a minimum of 6.5 acres of foraging habitat for each pair of relocated
owls (Figure 3). Relocation of owls should only be implemented during the non-breeding
season. On-site habitat should be preserved in a conservation easement and managed to promote
burrowing owl use of the site.

Owls should be excluded from burrows in the immediate impact zone and within a 50 m
(approx. 160 ft.) buffer zone by installing one-way doors in burrow entrances: One-way doors
should be left in place 48 hours to insure owls have left the burrow before excavation. One
alternate natural or artificial burrow should be provided for each burrow that will be excavated
in the project impact zone. The project area should be monitored daily for one week to confirm
owl use of alternate burrows before excavating burrows in the immediate impact zone.
Whenever possible, burrows should be excavated using hand tools and refilled to prevent
reoccupation. Sections of flexible plastic pipe or burlap bags should be inserted into the tunnels

Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                         California Burrowing Owl Consortium
and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                      April 1993
                                                 7
                                                          AVOIDANCE



                                 Non-breeding season             Breeding season
                                      1 Sept. - 31 Jan.               1 Feb. - 31 Aug.

         No impacts within                                                                No impacts within
          50 m of occupied                                                                75 m of occupied
                    burrow                                                                burrow

                     Occupied                                                             Occupied
                       burrow                                                             burrow


                   Maintain                                                               Maintain
          at least 6.5 acres                                                              at least 6.5 acres
           foraging habitat                                                               foraging habitat




   Figure 2. Burrowing owl mitigation guidelines.
                                                                                         California Burrowing Owl Consortium
Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                                                                     April 1993
and Mitigation Guidelines
                                                             8
                                                     ON-SITE MITIGATION
                                                   IF AVOIDANCE NOT MET
                                         (More than 6.5 acres suitable habitat available)




                                                                                      Passively relocate
                                                                                      at least 50 meters
                                                                                      from Impact Zone


                          Occupied
                            burrow

                                                                                     Maintain at least 6.5 acres
                                                                                     suitable habitat per pair
                                                                                     or resident bird




  Figure 3. Burrowing owl mitigation guidelines.
                                                                                                    California Burrowing Owl Consortium
Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                                                                                April 1993
and Mitigation Guidelines
                                                               9
during excavation to maintain an escape route for any animals inside the burrow.

Off-site Mitigation
If the project will reduce suitable habitat on-site below the threshold level of 6.5 acres per
relocated pair or single bird, the habitat should be replaced off-site. Off-site habitat must be
suitable burrowing owl habitat, as defined in the Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol, and the site
approved by CDFG. Land should be purchased and/or placed in a conservation easement in
perpetuity and managed to maintain suitable habitat. Off-site mitigation should use one of the
following ratios:

    1. Replacement of occupied habitat with occupied habitat: 1.5 times 6.5 (9.75) acres per
       pair or single bird.

   2. Replacement of occupied habitat with habitat contiguous to currently occupied habitat:
      2 times 6.5 (13.0) acres per pair or single bird.

    3. Replacement of occupied habitat with suitable unoccupied habitat: 3 times 6.5 (19.5)
       acres per pair or single bird.




 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                       California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                     April 1993
                                                10
                                 SECTION 3 LEGAL STATUS


The burrowing owl is a migratory bird species protected by international treaty under the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) of 1918 (16 U.S.C. 703-711). The MBTA makes it
unlawful to take, possess, buy, sell, purchase, or barter, any migratory bird listed in 50 C.F.R.
Part 10, including feathers or other parts, nests, eggs, or products, except as allowed by
implementing regulations (50 C.F.R. 21). Sections 3503, 3503.5, and 3800 of the California
Department of Fish and Game Code prohibit the take, possession, or destruction of birds, their
nests or eggs. Implementation of the take provisions requires that project-related disturbance
at active nesting territories be reduced or eliminated during critical phases of the nesting cycle
(March 1 - August 15, annually). Disturbance that causes nest abandonment and/or loss of
reproductive effort (e.g., killing or abandonment of eggs or young) or the loss of habitat upon
which the birds depend is considered "taking" and is potentially punishable by fines and/or
imprisonment. Such taking would also violate federal law protecting migratory birds (e.g.,
MBTA).

The burrowing owl is a Species of Special Concern to California because of declines of suitable
habitat and both localized and statewide population declines. Guidelines for the Implementation
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) provide that a species be considered as
endangered or "rare" regardless of appearance on a formal list for the purposes of the CEQA
(Guidelines, Section 15380, subsections b and d). The CEQA requires a mandatory findings of
significance if impacts to threatened or endangered species are likely to occur (Sections
21001(c), 21083. Guidelines 15380, 15064, 15065). Avoidance or mitigation must be presented
to reduce impacts to less than significant levels.


CEQA AND SUBDIVISION MAP ACT

CEQA Guidelines Section 15065 directs that a mandatory finding of significance is required for
projects that have the potential to substantially degrade or reduce the habitat of, or restrict the
range of a threatened or endangered species. CEQA requires agencies to implement feasible
mitigation measures or feasible alternatives identified in EIR's for projects which will otherwise
cause significant adverse impacts (Sections 21002, 21081, 21083; Guidelines, sections 15002,
subd. (a)(3), 15021, subd. (a)(2), 15091, subd. (a).).

To be legally adequate, mitigation measures must be capable of "avoiding the impact altogether
by not taking a certain action or parts of an action"; "minimizing impacts by limiting the degree
or magnitude of the action and its implementation"; "rectifying the impact by repairing,
rehabilitating or restoring the impacted environment"; "or reducing or eliminating the impact
over time by preservation and maintenance operations during the life of the action."
(Guidelines, Section 15.370).

 Section 66474 (e) of the Subdivision Map Act states "a legislative body of a city or county shall
 deny approval of a tentative map or parcel map for which a tentative map was not required, if

 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                         California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                      April 1993
                                                 11
it makes any of the following findings:... (e) that the design of the subdivision or the proposed
improvements are likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and
avoidably injure fish and wildlife or their habitat". In recent court cases, the court upheld that
Section 66474(e) provides for environmental impact review separate from and independent of
the requirements of CEQA (Topanga Assn. for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles,
263 Cal. Rptr. 214 (1989).). The finding in Section 66174 is in addition to the requirements
for the preparation of an EIR or Negative Declaration.




 Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                         California Burrowing Owl Consortium
 and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                      April 1993
                                                 12
                                  LITERATURE CITED


Feeney, L. 1992. Site fidelity in burrowing owls. Unpublished paper presented to Raptor
      Research Annual Meeting, November 1992. Seattle, Washington.

Haug, E. A. and L. W. Oliphant. 1990. Movements, activity patterns, and habitat use of
      burrowing owls in Saskatchewan. J. Wildlife Management 54:27-35.

Henny, C. J. and L. J. Blus. 1981. Artificial burrows provide new insight into burrowing owl
      nesting biology. Raptor Research 15:82-85.

Martin, D. J. 1973. Selected aspects of burrowing owl ecology and behavior. Condor 75:446-
       456.

Rich, T. 1984. Monitoring burrowing owl populations: Implications of burrow re-use. Wildlife
       Society Bulletin 12: 178- 180.

Thomsen, L. 1971. Behavior and ecology of burrowing owls on the Oakland Municipal
     Airport. Condor 73: 177-192.

Zam, M. 1974. Burrowing owl. U. S. Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management.
      Technical Note T-N 250. Denver, Colorado. 25pp.




Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol                                     California Burrowing Owl Consortium
and Mitigation Guidelines                                                                   April 1993
                                              13
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                         Appendix E
                        CDFG Staff Report on
                       Burrowing Owl Mitigation
State of California


M e m o r a n d u m

        : "Div. Chiefs - IFD, BDD, NED, & WMD                                   Date   :   October 17, 1995
           Reg. Mgrs. - Regions 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5




From    :    Department of Fish and Game



Subject :
            Staff Report on Burrowing Owl Mitigation


                    I am hereby transmitting the Staff Report on Burrowing Owl Mitigation for your use in
            reviewing projects (California Environmental Quality Act [CEQA] and others) which may affect
            burrowing owl habitat. The Staff Report has been developed during the last several months by the
            Environmental Services Division (ESD) in cooperation with the Wildlife Management Division
            (WMD) and regions 1, 2, and 4. It has been sent out for public review and redrafted as appropriate.

                    Either the mitigation measures in the staff report may be used or project specific measures
            may be developed. Alterative project specific measures proposed by the Department divisions/regions
            or by project sponsors will also be considered. However, such mitigation measures must be
            submitted to ESD for review. The review process will focus on the consistency of the proposed
            measure with Department, Fish and Game Commission, and legislative policy and with laws
            regarding raptor species. ESD wiIl coordinate project specific mitigation measure review with WMD.

                    If you have any questions regarding the report, please contact Mr. Ron Rempel, Supervising
            Biologist, Environmental Services Division, telephone (916) 654-9980.



                                                                C. F. Raysbrook
                                                                Interim Director

            Attachment

            cc:       Mr. Ron Rempel
                      Department of Fish and Game
                      Sacramento
     STAFF REPORT ON BURROWING OWL MITIGATION

                                                                                   Introduction

The Legislature and the Fish and Game Commission have developed the policies, standards and
regulatory mandates to protect native species of fish and wildlife. In order to determine how the
Department of Fish and Game (Department) could judge the adequacy of mitigation measures
designed to offset impacts to burrowing owls (Speotyto cunicularia; A.O.U. 1991) staff (WMD,
ESD, and Regions) has prepared this report. To ensure compliance with legislative and
commission policy, mitigation requirements which are consistent with this report should be
incorporated into: (1) Department comments to Lead Agencies and project sponsors pursuant to
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); and (2) other authorizations the Department
gives to project proponents for projects impacting burrowing owls.

This report is designed to provide the Department (including regional offices and divisions),
CEQA Lead Agencies and project proponents the context in which the Environmental Services
Division (ESD) will review proposed project specific mitigation measures. This report also
includes preapproved mitigation measures which have been judged to be consistent with policies,
standards and legal mandates of the Legislature,. the Fish and Game Commission and the
Department's public trust responsibilities. Implementation of mitigation measures consistent with
this report are intended to help achieve the conservation of burrowing owls and should
compliment multi-species habitat conservation planning efforts currently underway. The
Burrowing Owl Survey Protocol and Mitigation Guidelines developed by The California
Burrowing Owl Consortium (CBOC 1993) were taken into consideration in the preparation of this
staff report as were comments from other interested parties.

A range-wide conservation strategy for this species is needed. Any range-wide conservation
strategy should establish criteria for avoiding the need to list the species pursuant to either the
California or federal Endangered Species Acts through preservation of existing habitat, population
expansion into former habitat, recruitment of young into the population, and other specific efforts.

California's burrowing owl population is clearly declining and, if declines continue, the species
may qualify for listing. Because of the intense pressure for urban development within suitable
burrowing owl nesting and foraging habitat (open, flat and gently rolling grasslands and
grass/shrub lands) in California, conflicts between owls and development projects often occur.
Owl survival can be adversely affected by disturbance and foraging habitat loss even when
impacts to individual birds and nests/burrows are avoided. Adequate information about the
presence of owls is often unavailable prior to project approval. Following project approval there
is no legal mechanism through which to seek mitigation other than avoidance of occupied
burrows or nests. The absence of standardized survey methods often impedes consistent impact
assessment.


                                                  1
Burrowing Owl Habitat Description

Burrowing owl habitat can be found in annual and perennial grasslands, deserts, and arid
scrublands characterized by low-growing vegetation (Zarn 1974). Suitable owl habitat may also
include trees and shrubs if the canopy covers less than 30 percent of the ground surface. Burrows
are the essential component of burrowing owl habitat. Both natural and artificial burrows provide
protection, shelter, and nests for burrowing owls (Henny and Blus 1981). Burrowing owls
typically use burrows made by fossorial mammals, such as ground squirrels or badgers, but also
may use man-made structures such as cement culverts; cement, asphalt, or wood debris piles; or
openings beneath cement or asphalt pavement.

Occupied Burrowing Owl Habitat

Burrowing owls may use a site for breeding, wintering, foraging, and/or migration stopovers.
Occupancy of suitable burrowing owl habitat can be verified at a site by detecting a burrowing
owl, its molted feathers, cast pellets, prey remains, eggshell fragments, or excrement at or near
a burrow entrance. Burrowing owls exhibit high site fidelity, reusing burrows year after year
(Rich 1984, Feeney 1992). A site should be assumed occupied if at least one burrowing owl has
been observed occupying a burrow there within the last three years (Rich 1984).


                                                                     CEQA Project Review

The measures included in this report are intended to provide a decision-making process that
should be implemented whenever-there is potential for-an action or project to adversely affect
burrowing owls. For projects subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the
process begins by conducting surveys to determine if burrowing owls are foraging or nesting on
or adjacent to the project site. If surveys confirm that the site is occupied habitat, mitigation
measures to minimize impacts to burrowing owls, their burrows and foraging habitat should be
incorporated into the CEQA document as enforceable conditions. The measures in this document
are intended to conserve the species by protecting and maintaining viable' populations of the
species throughout their range in California. This may often result in protecting and managing
habitat for the species at sites away from rapidly urbanizing/developing areas. Projects and
situations vary and mitigation measures should be adapted to fit specific circumstances.

 Projects not subject to CEQA review may have to be handled separately since the legal authority
 the Department has with respect to burrowing owls in this type of situation is often limited. The
 burrowing owl is protected from "take" (Section 3503.5 of the Fish and Game Code) but
 unoccupied habitat is likely to be lost for activities not subject to CEQA.




 CDFG\ESD
 Scptember 25, 1995                              2
                                                                                   Legal Status

The burrowing owl is a migratory species protected by international treaty under the Migratory
Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) of 1918 (16 U.S.C. 703-711). The MBTA makes it unlawful to take,
possess, buy, sell, purchase, or barter any migratory bird listed in 50 C.F.R. Part 10, including
feathers or other parts, nests, eggs, or products, except as allowed by implementing regulations
(50 C.F.R. 21). Sections 3505, 3503.5, and 3800 of the California Department of Fish and Game
Code prohibit the take, possession, or destruction of birds, their nests or eggs. To avoid violation
of the take provisions of these laws generally requires that project-related disturbance at active
nesting territories be reduced or eliminated during the nesting cycle (February 1 to August 31).
Disturbance that causes nest abandonment and/or loss of reproductive effort (e.g., killing or
abandonment of eggs or young) may be considered "take"' and is potentially punishable by fines
and/or imprisonment.

The burrowing owl is a Species of Special Concern to California because of declines of suitable
habitat and both localized and statewide population declines. Guidelines for the Implementation
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) provide that a species be considered as
endangered or "rare" regardless of appearance on a formal list for the purposes of the CEQA
(Guidelines, Section 15380, subsections b and d). The CEQA requires a mandatory findings of
significance if impacts to threatened or endangered species are likely to occur (Sections 21001 (c),
2103; Guidelines 15380, 15064, 15065). To be legally adequate, mitigation measures must be
capable of "avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action";
"minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its implementation";
"rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating or restoring the impacted environment"; "or
reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and maintenance operations during
the life of the action" (Guidelines, Section 15370). Avoidance or mitigation to reduce impacts
to less than significant levels must be included in a project or the CEQA lead agency must make
and justify findings of overriding considerations.


                                                                            Impact Assessment

 Habitat Assessment

 The project site and a 150 meter (approximately 500 ft.) buffer (where possible and appropriate
 based on habitat) should be surveyed to assess the presence of burrowing owls and their habitat
 (Thomsen 1971, Martin 1973). If occupied habitat is detected on or adjacent to the site, measures
 to avoid, minimize, or mitigate the project's impacts to the species should be incorporated into
 the project, including burrow preconstruction surveys to ensure avoidance of direct take. It is
 also recommended that preconstruction surveys be conducted if the species was not detected but
 is likely to occur on the project site.



 CDFG\ESD
 September 25, 1995                               3
Burrowing Owl and Burrow Surveys

Burrowing owl and burrow surveys should be conducted during both the wintering and nesting
seasons, unless the species is detected on the first survey. If possible, the winter survey should
be conducted between December 1 and January 31 (when wintering owls are most likely to be
present) and the nesting season survey should be conducted between April 15 and July 15 (the
peak of the breeding season). Surveys conducted from two hours before sunset to one hour after,
or from one hour before to two hours after sunrise, are also preferable.

Surveys should be conducted by walking suitable habitat on the entire project site and (where
possible) in areas within 150 meters (approx. 500 ft.) of the project impact zone. The 150-meter
buffer zone is surveyed to identify burrows and owls outside of the project area which may be
impacted by factors -such as noise and vibration (heavy equipment, etc.) during project
construction. Pedestrian survey transects should be spaced to allow 100 percent visual coverage
of the ground surface. The distance between transect center lines should be no more than 30
meters (approx. 100 ft.) and should be reduced to account for differences in terrain, vegetation
density, and ground surface visibility. To effectively survey large projects (100 acres or larger),
two or more surveyors should be used to walk adjacent transects. To avoid impacts to owls from
surveyors, owls and/or occupied burrows should be avoided by a minimum of 50 meters (approx.
 160 ft.) wherever practical. Disturbance to occupied burrows should be avoided during all
seasons.

Definition of Impacts

The following should be considered impacts to the species:

            ·         Disturbance within 50 meters (approx. 160 ft.) Which may result in
                      harassment of owls at occupied burrows;

             ·        Destruction of natural and artificial burrows (culverts,              concrete
                      slabs and debris piles that provide shelter to burrowing owls); and

             ·        Destruction and/or degradation of foraging habitat adjacent (within
                      100 m) of an occupied burrow(s).

 Written Report

 A report for the project should be prepared for the Department and copies should be submitted
 to the Regional contact and to the Wildlife Management Division Bird and Mammal Conservation
 Program. The report should include the following information:




 C D F G \ E S D
 September 25, 1995                                   4
             ·       Date and time of visit(s) including name of the qualified biologist conducting
                     surveys, weather and visibility conditions, and survey methodology;

            ·        Description of the site including location, size, topography, vegetation
                     communities, and animals observed during visit(s);

             ·       Assessment of habitat suitability for burrowing owls;

            ·        Map and photographs of the site;

             ·       Results of transect surveys including a map showing the location of all burrow(s)
                     (natural or artificial) and owl(s), including the numbers at each burrow if present
                     and tracks, feathers, pellets, or other items (prey remains, animal scat);

              ·      Behavior of owls during the surveys;

             ·       Summary of both winter and nesting season surveys including any productivity
                     information and a map showing territorial boundaries and home ranges; and

             ·       Any historical information (Natural Diversity Database, Department regional files?
                     Breeding Bird Survey data, American Birds records, Audubon Society, local bird
                     club, other biologists, etc.) regarding the presence of burrowing owls on the site.


                                                                                           Mitigation

The objective of these measures is to avoid and minimize impacts to burrowing owls at a project
site and preserve habitat that will support viable owls populations. If burrowing owls are
detected using the project area, mitigation measures to minimize and offset the potential impacts
should be included as enforceable measures during the CEQA process.

Mitigation actions should be carried out from September 1 to January 31 which is prior to the
nesting season (Thomsen 1971, Zam 1974). Since the timing of nesting activity may vary with
latitude and climatic conditions, this time frame should be adjusted accordingly. Preconstruction
surveys of suitable habitat at the project site(s) and buffer zone(s) should be conducted within the
30 days prior to construction to ensure no additional, burrowing owls have established territories
since the initial surveys. If ground disturbing activities are delayed or suspended for more than
30 days after the preconstruction survey, the site should be resurveyed.

Although the mitigation measures may be included as enforceable project conditions in the CEQA
process, it may also be desirable to formalize them in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
between the Department and the project sponsor. An MOU is needed when lands (fee title or
conservation easement) are being transferred to the Department.




CDFG\ESD
September 25, 1995
                                                        5
Specific Mitigation Measures

1.         Occupied burrows should not be disturbed during the nesting season (February 1 through
           August 3 1) unless a qualified biologist approved by the Department verifies through non-
           invasive methods that either: (1) the birds have not begun egg-laying and incubation; or
           (2) that juveniles from the occupied burrows are foraging independently and are capable
           of independent survival.

2.         To offset the loss of foraging and burrow habitat on the project site, a minimum of 6.5
           acres of foraging habitat (calculated on a 100 m {approx. 300 ft.} foraging radius around
           the burrow) per pair or unpaired resident bird, should be acquired and permanently
           protected. The protected lands should be adjacent to occupied burrowing owl habitat and
           at a location acceptable to the Department. Protection of additional habitat acreage per
           pair or unpaired resident bird may be applicable in some instances. The CBOC has also
           developed mitigation guidelines (CBOC 1993) that can be incorporated by CEQA lead
           agencies and which are consistent with this staff report.

3.         When destruction of occupied burrows is unavoidable, existing unsuitable burrows should
           be enhanced (enlarged or cleared of debris) or new burrows created (by installing artificial
           burrows) at a ratio of 2:1 on the protected lands site. One example of an artificial burrow
           design is provided in Attachment A.

4.          If owls must be moved away from the disturbance area, passive relocation techniques (as
            described below) should be used rather than trapping. At least one or more weeks will
            be necessary to accomplish this and allow the owls to acclimate to alternate burrows.

5.          The project sponsor should provide funding for long-term management and monitoring
            of the protected lands. The monitoring plan should include success criteria, remedial
            measures, and an annual report to the Department.

Impact Avoidance

 If avoidance is the preferred method of dealing with potential project impacts, then no disturbance
 should occur within 50 meters (approx. 160 ft.) of occupied burrows during the nonbreeding
 season of September 1 through January 31 or within 75 meters (approx. 250 ft.) during the
 breeding season of February 1 through August 31. Avoidance also requires that a minimum of
 6.5 acres of foraging habitat be permanently preserved contiguous with occupied burrow sites for
 each pair of breeding burrowing owls (with or without dependent young) or single unpaired
 resident bird. The configuration of the protected habitat should be approved by the Department.




 CDFC\ESD
 September 25. 1995                                  6
Passive Relocation - With One-Way Doors

Owls should be excluded from burrows in the immediate impact zone and within a 50 meter
(approx. 160 ft.) buffer zone by installing one-way doors in burrow entrances. One-way doors
(e.g., modified dryer vents) should be left in place 48 hours to insure owls have left the burrow
before excavation. Two natural or artificial burrows should be provided for each burrow in the
project area that will be rendered biologically unsuitable. The project area should be monitored
daily for one week to confirm owl use of burrows before excavating burrows in the immediate
impact zone. Whenever possible, burrows should be excavated using hand tools and refilled to
prevent reoccupation. Sections of flexible plastic pipe should be inserted into the tunnels during
excavation to maintain an escape route for any animals inside the burrow.

Passive Relocation - Without One-Way Doors

Two natural or artificial burrows should be provided for each burrow in the project area that will
be rendered biologically unsuitable. The project area should be monitored daily until the owls
have relocated to the new burrows. The formerly occupied burrows may then. be excavated.
Whenever possible, burrows should be excavated using hand tools and refilled to prevent
reoccupation. Sections of flexible plastic pipe should be inserted into burrows during excavation
to maintain an escape route for any animals inside the burrow.


                                                           Projects Not Subject to CEQA

The Department is often contacted regarding the presence of burrowing owls on construction
sites, parking lots and other areas for which there is no CEQA action or for which the CEQA
process has been completed. In these situations, the Department should seek to reach agreement
with the project sponsor to implement the specific mitigation measures described above. If they
are unwilling to do so, passive relocation without the aid of one-way doors is their only option
based upon Fish and Game Code 3503.5.




 CDFG\ESD
 September 25, 1995                               7
                                                                        Literature Cited

American Ornithologists Union (AOU). 1991. Thirty-eighth supplement to the AOU checklist
of    North American birds. Auk 108:750-754.

Feeney, L. 1992. Site fidelity in burrowing owls. Unpublished paper presented to Raptor
Research     Annual Meeting, November 1992. Seattle, Washington.

Haug, E. A. and L. W. Oliphant. 1990, Movements, activity patterns, and habitat use of
burrowing    owls in Saskatchewan. J. Wildlife Management 54:27-35.

Henny, C. J. and L. J. Blus. 1981. Artificial burrows provide new insight into burrowing owl
nesting       biology. Raptor Research 15:82-85.

Martin, D. J. 1973. Selected aspects of burrowing owl ecology and behavior. Condor 75:446-
456.

Rich, T. 1984. Monitoring burrowing owl populations: Implications of burrow re-use. Wildlife
       Society Bulletin 12:178-180.

The California Burrowing Owl Consortium (CBOC). 1993. Burrowing owl survey protocol and
      mitigation guidelines. Tech. Rep. Burrowing Owl Consortium, Alviso, California.

Thomsen, L. 1971. Behavior and ecology of burrowing owls on the Oakland Municipal Airport.
      Condor 73:177-192.

Zarn, M. 1974. Burrowing owl. U. S. Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management.
       Technical Note T-N 250. Denver, Colorado. 25 pp.




 CDFG\ESD
 September 25, 1995                           8
           Eyas 1O(1):38 Spring 1987



Reproductive Success of Burrowing Owls Using Artificial Nest Burrows in Southeastern
Idaho                        ing bega. Average clutch size at the imal; (4) it is easy to transport, especially
                                                  start of incubation was 5.6 eggs. Most                    over long distances; and (5) the flexible
by Bruce Olenick                                  eggs tended to hatch synchronously in                     tunnel simplifies installation. The use of
                                                  all successful nests.                                     this artificial nest burrow design was
                                                                                                            highly successful and may prove to be
                                                     Although the initial cost of construct-
Artificial nest burrows were implanted                                                                      a great resource technique for future
                                                  ing this burrow design may be slightly
in southeastern Idaho f'or burrowing                                                                        management of this species.
                                                  higher than a burrow consisting entirely
owls in the spring of 1986. These arti-           of wood, the plastic pipe burrow offers                   For additional information on construct-
 ficial burrows consisted of a 12" x 12"          the following advantages: (1) it lasts sev-               ing this artificial nest burrow, contact
 x 8" wood nesting chamber with re-               eral field seasons without rotting or col-                Bruce Olenick, Department of Biology,
rnovable top and a 6 foot corrugated and          lapsing; (2) it may prevent or retard                     Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID
perforated plastic drainage pipe 6 inches         predation; (3) construction time is min-                  83209.
in diameter (Fig. 1). Earlier investigators
claimed that artificial burrows must pro-
vide a natural dirt floor to allow bur-
rowing owls to modify the nesting tunnel
and chamber. Contrary to this, the ar-
tificial burrow introduced here does not
allow owls to modify the entrance or
tunnel. The inability to change the phys-
ical dimensions of the burrow tunnel
does not seem to reflect the owls' breed-
ing success or deter them from using this
burrow design.
    In 1936, 22 artificial burrows were
inhabited. Thirteen nesting attempts
yielded an average clutch size of 8.3 eggs
per breeding pair. Eight nests success-
fully hatched at least 1 nestling. In these
nests, 67 of 75 eggs hatched (59.3%) and
an estimated 61 n e s t l i n g s ( 9 1 . 0 % )
fledged. An analysis of the egg laying            fig. 1 Artificial nest b u r r o w design for burrowing owls Entire unit (including nest chamber) is buried 12" --
and incubation periods showed that in-            18" below ground for maintaining thermal stability of the nest chamber. A= nest chamber, B = plastic
cubation commenced well after egg lay-            pipe. C = perch.
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                         Appendix F
                         Albion Report on
                    Burrowing Owl Site Eviction
                                                                                 1414 SOQUEL AVENUE, SUITE 205
  ALBION ENVIRONMENTAL, INC.                                                     SANTA CRUZ, CALIFORNIA 95062
  NATURAL   AND   CULTURAL RESOURCES CONSULTANTS
                                                                                 TELEPHONE (831) 469-9128
                                                                                 FACSIMILE (831) 469-9137



October 4, 2005

Jack Hall
Community Development Manager
Shea Homes
2580 Shea Center Drive
Livermore, CA. 94551

Summary report on burrowing owl eviction from the Davidon/Shea project site in Antioch, CA.

Dear Mr. Hall:

This is a summary report on the results of the burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) passive relocation
activities that Albion biologists Jack Barclay and Lindsay Harman carried out on the Davidon/Shea
project site in Antioch on September 23, 26 and 28, 2005. The project site is located on the east side
of Canada Valley Road approximately 0.4 miles north of Lone Tree Way in Antioch. The purpose of
our work was to passively relocate burrowing owls from the Davidon/Shea project area to ensure no
owls were present or harmed during initial grading. Prior to beginning the passive relocation we
requested the limits of the work area be marked in the field so we could accurately determine the
areas that needed to be treated with one-way door exclusion devices.

We observed four burrowing owls on the project area when we began passive relocation activities on
September 23, 2005. We had previously documented 9 burrowing owls on the site and had captured
and banded 7 of them between September 1-7. The owls had been using numerous burrows and roosts
on the site but often they were on the rocky berm running through the center of the project area along
the west side of the creek. This berm has many rock piles that provided shade and cover for the
burrowing owls. The four burrowing owls flew to various burrow locations in the surrounding habitat
as we surveyed the site and all four owls flew off the project area as we began installing one-way
doors.

We walked the entire project area and installed one-way doors in all burrows and cavities potentially
suitable for burrowing owl occupancy. We installed 41 one-way doors in 4 locations on the project
area; on the hill in the northwest corner of the property, along the rocky berm parallel to the west side
of creek, in a soil pile on the east side of the creek and on the slope at the northeast portion of the
project site. We left all burrows outside the limits of grading open to help facilitate owls moving off
of the project site. Leaving open burrows adjacent to the project area provided cover for the owls
while they are transitioning to new burrow locations. Because of the close proximity of burrows we
recommended that the work area be clearly marked or fenced to ensure ground disturbing activity
stayed inside the marked limits of grading.

I returned to the site on September 26 to determine if owls had left the site. Grading was scheduled to
begin if all one-way doors were still intact and owls were not observed using burrows on the project
area. After inspecting the site I observed three owls still using the rocky berm in the center of the
project area. As I approached they flew off the project area and I inspecting the area for available
burrows. Owls were still roosting on the berm but only appeared to be using the rocks for shade or
cover because I did not observe any new burrows or cavities and all the one-way doors were still
intact. After the site was clear of owls and all cavities were inspected I began removing one-way
doors in preparation for grading, which was to begin immediately. As I finished removing the one-
way doors on the berm, one owl from off the site flew into the berm and disappeared down one of the
burrows. Such activity is unusual and if I thought an owl might return to the berm immediately before
it was to be graded I would not have removed the doors. After the owl disappeared, I immediately
explained to the contractor that he should not grade that portion of the site. I reinstalled 9 one-way
doors in the area where the owl disappeared and put flagging around this area to prevent any ground
disturbance. I also explained to the contractor that these new one-way doors should be left in place for
48 hours and the area should be surveyed again on September 28. I monitored grading on the
remaining portion of the site.

Jack and I returned on September 28, 2005 to inspect the work area and the one-way doors in the
exclusion area (berm). We surveyed the berm, inspected each one-way door, looked for newly opened
burrows, and checked for any newly created cavities. We did not observe any burrowing owls in the
exclusion zone. After thoroughly inspecting the site we concluded that all suitable burrows and
cavities were still closed and grading could begin in this area. We monitored grading of this
remaining portion of the project area.

In summary, the eviction of burrowing owls from project area was successful, although it was delayed
for 48 hours because one owl was very persistent at wanting to continue to use the rocky berm. After
careful inspection of one-way doors, reinstalling one-way doors on the rocky berm and carefully
monitoring the site prior to and during grading we concluded that burrowing owls had vacated the
areas to be graded and no owls were harmed during the initial grading. Please contact me if you have
any questions about this report.


Sincerely,




Lindsay Harman
Wildlife Biologist
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                        Appendix G
                   City Council RDA Allocation
                    Resolution No. 2004/118
STAFF REPORT TO THE RDA COMMITTEE FOR CONSIDERATION AT THE
MEETING OF JUNE 28, 2004

Prepared by:       Tina Wehrmeister, Senior Planner

Approved by:       Joseph G. Brandt, Director of Community Development

Date:              June 24, 2004

Subject:           Davidon / Jacuzzi Property


PROJECT INFORMATION

Applicant:                Davidon Homes

Owner:                    Tristar Land Investment Corporation

Location:                 170 acres generally located west of the future State Route 4
                          Bypass and north of the McBail residential project being
                          developed north of Lone Tree Way (a portion of the former
                          Jacuzzi family properties ­ see Attachment A for vicinity
                          map). (APN: 053-060-021, and portion of 053-072-013)

General Plan / Zoning:    The site is part of the East Lone Tree Specific Plan (FUA 2)
                          and is designated for low and medium low density residential
                          with open space areas as shown in the Specific Plan (see
                          Attachment B). The Specific Plan allows a maximum of four
                          dwelling units per acre (6,000 square foot minimum lot area)
                          for low-density areas and six dwelling units per acre (4,000
                          square foot minimum lot area) for medium low density areas.

                          The General Plan states that the project area should be
                          developed consistent with the Low and/or Medium Density
                          Residential land use category which allows four and six
                          dwelling units to the acre respectively.

Requested Allocations: The applicant has amended the number of requested
                       allocations from 579 to 562 and will discuss the yearly break
                       down of allocations at the RDAC meeting. The site plan has
                       not been amended. The lot reduction will be reflected in
                       future entitlement applications.




                                                                           2A
                                                                         6-28-04
RDA Committee Staff Report
Davidon Homes
June 28, 2004                                                                            2

PROJECT DESCRIPTION / BACKGROUND

The project consists of a mix of low and medium density residential lots with minimum
lot sizes of 6,000 s.f. (8,217 s.f. average size) and 5,000 s.f. (6,566 s.f. average size)
respectively. It should be noted that the 5,000 s.f. minimum lots exceed the minimum
allowed by the Specific Plan which is 4,000 s.f. in Medium Low Density Areas. The
applicant is proposing 27 acres of open space including trails with connections to the
subdivision. In addition, an 8 acre neighborhood park is shown with five of the eight
acres developed similar to other neighborhood parks. The Specific Plan envisioned a
fully developed 8-acre neighborhood park at this location, but this type of detail will be
resolved at the Tentative Map/Planned Development entitlement level.

The applicant was denied a request for 549 units in the first round of the RDA process
last year. The 2003 plan included a third high school site. At that time, the Council felt
that the applicant did not provide an acceptable level of community benefit noting that
the project was not offering to front infrastructure costs for the employment / commercial
portion of Future Urban Area 2 despite requirements contained in the specific plan; that
the proposal did not provide a sufficient variety in product or street design; and that the
applicant was not providing any other significant community benefit other than the high
school site which was to be located on acreage previously slated for open space.

SURROUNDING LAND USES

The project is bounded by existing single family residential development on the west,
the McBail single family residential development in construction to the south, the future
State Route 4 Bypass on the east, and Laurel Rd and the proposed Bixby residential
development to the north.

SITE PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT ISSUES

Open Space:            The applicant shows the ridgeline open space area as was offered
to the City as a gift from the Jacuzzi family. A copy of the agreement is attached (see
Attachment C). The land was never officially accepted by the City. A condition of future
entitlements for the project would require that the applicant take the necessary steps to
annex the property into Lighting and Landscape District 10 to assure proper fire
protection, access, public liability protection, and maintenance. The applicant would be
required to install trails as shown on the plans and could, as a community benefit,
provide such items as bench seating, look out areas, and waste receptacles.

Neighborhood Park:           The East Lone Tree Specific Plan requires an eight acre
active community park. Future entitlement plans would need to reflect this requirement.
The plans currently show a five acre active park. The neighborhood park improvements
would be eligible for reimbursement. As an additional community benefit, the applicant
could offer to not request reimbursement, allowing the City to utilize the funds to
improve other neighborhood parks.
RDA Committee Staff Report
Davidon Homes
June 28, 2004                                                                            3

Specific Plan Financing Requirements:            The East Lone Tree Specific Plan and
its corresponding Financial Plan intended that funding for major infrastructure links in
the employment areas east of the State Route 4 Bypass be fronted by residential
development on the west side of the Bypass with possible reimbursement, at Council's
discretion, for some or all of those funds (see Attachment D for a summary of
infrastructure requirements contained in the Specific and Financial plans).

The applicant is offering a non-reimbursable Community Facilities District (CFD) lien of
up to $15,000 per residential lot for construction of the infrastructure identified by the
Financial Plan (see Attachment E). This offer, along with the participation of the other
property owners north of McBail in the CFD, will be adequate to construct the remaining
infrastructure improvements north of the McBail properties. If the CFD is not formed, it
is estimated that the offer will be adequate to construct full four lane Slatten Ranch Rd.
from the McBail north boundary to Laurel Rd with sewer and water OR two lane Slatten
Ranch Rd. and the East Antioch Creek improvements needed to move the employment
/ regional retail areas out of the flood zone.

This offer will provide the necessary funding to construct Slatten Ranch Rd. from the
northern McBail property line to Laurel Road and the State Route 4 Bypass interchange.
Staff believes this link is critical in order to attract regional retail and employment users
to the area. Currently, the development interest in the area has been from large
regional retail entities which would provide significant revenues to the City. Without the
completion of Slatten Ranch Rd., it is likely that those retail entities will locate in the
area however, most likely in Oakley or Brentwood (see last paragraph of Attachment F,
EPS market study).

It should be noted that the applicant's offer is non-reimbursable. This is over and above
the specific plan requirement which discusses possible reimbursement to residential
developers.

The above offer is contingent upon the execution of a Development Agreement
providing that Davidon has no further obligation to construct additional off-site
infrastructure that is not project related and that bonds will be sold and CFD
assessment will be payable only as necessary to complete the improvements
concurrent with the completion of the State Route 4 Bypass.

Should a CFD not be established, and an alternative funding mechanism acceptable to
both Davidon and the City not be devised, or should the Development Agreement not
be entered into, any allocation of residential units under the RDA process would be
void.

State Route 4 Bypass Noise Issues: It has recently been determined that noise from
the future Bypass may exceed the City's noise standards for residential development.
The Community Development Department will address this issue in the near future
before the Planning Commission and City Council. Most likely, it will be requested that
RDA Committee Staff Report
Davidon Homes
June 28, 2004                                                                       4

the noise standards in the General Plan be amended to be consistent with the State
standards along freeways. This issue may impact site planning during the entitlement
process for this project.

SUMMARY OF PROJECT BENEFITS

Below is a brief description of the community benefits provided by the project and their
timing; organized by each evaluation category approved by the City Council. The
maximum possible points for each category are shown in the table, but no points have
been assigned. The applicant's description of the project and community benefits is
attached to the plan set (note that Attachment E modifies the community benefit offer).
Only items that can be considered above and beyond typical development requirements
are included in the table below.


CATEGORY                                                  POINTS            COMMITTEE
                                                         POSSIBLE             NOTES
A. PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENTS                                 200 POINTS            NOTES

A-1 Traffic and Transportation                            75 points
· Non-reimbursable Community Facilities District
  (CFD) lien of up to $15,000 per residential lot for
  construction of the infrastructure identified by the
  East Lone Tree Specific Plan and Financial Plan.
A-2 Utilities and Infrastructure                          75 points
· See above

A-3 Open Space and Parks                                  25 points
· The project is providing 27 acres of passive open
  space and 8 acres of park land, five acres to be
  developed. These facilities are required by an offer
  of dedication of land to the City by previous owners
  and the specific plan respectively.
A-4 Natural Features                                      25 points
· The applicant references the 27 acres of passive
  open space for this category.
· This acreage was previously offered to the City and
  is not considered a benefit over and above standard
  requirements by staff.
RDA Committee Staff Report
Davidon Homes
June 28, 2004                                                               5


CATEGORY                                                   POINTS      COMMITTEE
                                                          POSSIBLE       NOTES

B. DESIGN                                                 100 POINTS

B-1 Site Design                                            25 points
· The applicant is providing 5,000 and 6,000 s.f. lot
  types and states that many of the lots exceed the
  minimums.
B-2 Architecture and Design Quality                        25 points
· The applicant submitted working architectural plans,
  which were included in the plans distributed to the
  RDAC. The applicant notes that they are developing
  two distinct product lines and that design updates
  may occur during the life of the project. Staff feels
  that the architecture is typical of homes currently
  under construction in Antioch.
B-3 Energy and Efficiency                                  25 points
· The applicant states that dual pane windows, tech
  shield roof sheathing, re-circulating hot water
  systems, and energy saver furnaces, air
  conditioners, and appliances will be installed as
  standard features on all homes.
· The applicant states that developer installed front
  yard landscaping will utilize water saving techniques
  and plant materials.
                                                           25 points
B-4 Public Safety
· The applicant states that Class A fire resistant roof
  materials will be utilized on all homes. Class C roof
  material is the minimum required by the Building
  Code for residences. The Class A materials offered
  by the applicant is less flammable.
· As a standard feature, homes will be wired for
  security systems with an option for digital
  surveillance.
C. ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND
                                                          200 POINTS
CONTRIBUTIONS
C-1 School Mitigation                                      60 points
· The project will participate in the new AUSD CFD
  2004-1.
RDA Committee Staff Report
Davidon Homes
June 28, 2004                                                                          6


CATEGORY                                                     POINTS           COMMITTEE
                                                           POSSIBLE             NOTES
C-2 Economic Development Benefits                           60 points
· The non-reimbursable infrastructure funding offer will
  provide the necessary improvements to attract
  regional retail and employment projects to FUA2.
  Future regional retail projects in particular will
  provide significant sales tax revenue to the City.
C-3 Contributions to Special Projects                       80 points
· None


TOTAL POINTS (500 points possible)



RECOMMENDATION

According to the RDA Ordinance, one of the primary objectives of this process is to
implement the City's goal that new residential developments make positive contributions
to the community, and not just mitigate impacts. The community benefits offered by
Davidon Homes are significant in boosting the City's ability to attract regional retail and
employment development in FUA2.

Staff recommends that the RDAC recommend approval of allocations for this project.

ATTACHMENTS

A.   Vicinity Map
B.   East Lone Tree Specific Plan Land Use Map
C.   Jacuzzi Open Space Agreement
D.   FUA 2 Commercial/Employment Infrastructure Requirements
E.   Letter from applicant dated June 23, 2004 modifying offer
F.   Excerpt from EPS Antioch Retail Market Study
         RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ALLOCATION COMMITTEE
RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
  FOR THE DAVIDON / JACUZZI PROPERTIES RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

        WHEREAS, the Residential Development Allocation Committee (RDAC) of the
City of Antioch did receive an application from Davidon Homes for the approval of 562
residential development allocations for a 170 acre project generally located west of the
future State Route 4 Bypass and north of the McBail residential project being developed
north of Lone Tree Way (APN: 053-060-021, and portion of 053-072-013) (RDA-04-01);
and

       WHEREAS, the approval of residential development allocations does not
constitute an entitlement to develop a project and the allocation process is not subject to
the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act; and

       WHEREAS, the RDAC duly gave notice of public meeting as required by law;
and

      WHEREAS, on June 28, 2004 the RDAC duly held a public meeting, received
and considered evidence, both oral and documentary; and

       WHEREAS, it is hereby understood that any contributions, mitigations, and other
benefits that were agreed to as part of this allocation process shall be incorporated into
future entitlement submittal(s).

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the RDAC does hereby recommend
that Davidon Homes be granted 562 residential development allocations insert yearly
break down subject to the following items and community benefits that the applicant has
agreed to provide:

1.     That the overall project description, facilities, layout, and phasing shall be
       substantially in conformance with the plans reviewed by the RDAC.

2.     That the applicant shall provide dual pane windows, tech shield roof sheathing,
       re-circulating hot water systems, Class A fire resistant roofs, prewired security
       alarm systems, and energy saver furnaces, air conditioner, and appliances as
       standard features on all homes.

3.    That front yard landscaping shall utilize water saving techniques and plant
      materials.

4.     That the applicant shall contribute a non-reimbursable Community Facilities
       District (CFD) lien of up to $15,000 per residential lot for construction of
       infrastructure identified by the East Lone Tree Financial Plan. This offer is
       contingent on the successful formation of a CFD that will provide for the
       construction of all such infrastructure with fair and reasonable liens on the other
      properties in FUA 2. Fair and reasonable liens shall be determined by a study by
      EPS which is presently being conducted.

      The City and Davidon Homes shall enter into a Development Agreement (DA)
      which shall provide the framework for entitlement of 562 single family units.
      Davidon understands that RDA approval is not an entitlement and the plat
      provided for the RDA process showing 579 units shall be revised as part of the
      tentative map process. The DA shall further provide that Davidon has o
      obligation to construct additional off-site infrastructure that is not directly project
      related. The DA shall also confirm that bonds will be sold and CFD assessments
      will be payable only as necessary to complete the improvements approximately
      concurrent with the completion of the State Route 4 Bypass.

5.    That Davidon Homes shall participate in the new AUSD CFD 2004-1.


                       *       *      *      *      *        *     *

       I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by
the Residential Development Allocation Committee of the City of Antioch, County of
Contra Costa, State of California at a regular meeting of said Residential Development
Allocation Committee held on the 28th day of June, 2004 by the following vote:


                                                        _____________________________
                                                                          Victor Carniglia
                                                                   Secretary to the RDAC
         RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ALLOCATION COMMITTEE
RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
  FOR THE DAVIDON / JACUZZI PROPERTIES RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

        WHEREAS, the Residential Development Allocation Committee (RDAC) of the
City of Antioch did receive an application from Davidon Homes for the approval of 562
residential development allocations for a 170 acre project generally located west of the
future State Route 4 Bypass and north of the McBail residential project being developed
north of Lone Tree Way (APN: 053-060-021, and portion of 053-072-013) (RDA-04-01);
and

       WHEREAS, the approval of residential development allocations does not
constitute an entitlement to develop a project and the allocation process is not subject to
the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act; and

       WHEREAS, the RDAC duly gave notice of public meeting as required by law;
and

      WHEREAS, on June 28, 2004 the RDAC duly held a public meeting, received
and considered evidence, both oral and documentary; and

       WHEREAS, it is hereby understood that any contributions, mitigations, and other
benefits that were agreed to as part of this allocation process shall be incorporated into
future entitlement submittal(s).

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the RDAC does hereby recommend
that Davidon Homes be granted 562 residential development allocations over four years
(2005 ­ 125; 2006 ­ 150; 2007 ­ 150; 2008 ­ 137) subject to the following items and
community benefits that the applicant has agreed to provide:

1.     That the overall project description, facilities, layout, and phasing shall be
       substantially in conformance with the plans reviewed by the RDAC.

2.     That the applicant shall provide dual pane windows, tech shield roof sheathing,
       re-circulating hot water systems, Class A fire resistant roofs, prewired security
       alarm systems, and energy saver furnaces, air conditioner, and appliances as
       standard features on all homes.

3.    That front yard landscaping shall utilize water saving techniques and plant
      materials.

4.     That the applicant shall contribute a non-reimbursable Community Facilities
       District (CFD) lien of up to $15,000 per residential lot for construction of
       infrastructure identified by the East Lone Tree Financial Plan. This offer is
       contingent on the successful formation of a CFD that will provide for the
       construction of all such infrastructure with fair and reasonable liens on the other
      properties in FUA 2. Fair and reasonable liens shall be determined by a study by
      EPS which is presently being conducted.

      The City and Davidon Homes shall enter into a Development Agreement (DA)
      which shall provide the framework for entitlement of 562 single family units.
      Davidon understands that RDA approval is not an entitlement and the plat
      provided for the RDA process showing 579 units shall be revised as part of the
      tentative map process. The DA shall further provide that Davidon has no
      obligation to construct additional off-site infrastructure that is not directly project
      related. The DA shall also confirm that bonds will be sold and CFD assessments
      will be payable only as necessary to complete the improvements approximately
      concurrent with the completion of the State Route 4 Bypass.

5.    That Davidon Homes shall participate in the new AUSD CFD 2004-1.


                       *       *      *      *      *        *     *

       I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by
the Residential Development Allocation Committee of the City of Antioch, County of
Contra Costa, State of California at a regular meeting of said Residential Development
Allocation Committee held on the 28th day of June, 2004 by the following vote:

      AYES:         Azevedo, Henry

      NOES:         Mayor Freitas, Conley


                                                        _____________________________
                                                                          Victor Carniglia
                                                                   Secretary to the RDAC
STAFF REPORT TO THE CITY COUNCIL
FOR CONSIDERATION AT THE MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2004

Prepared by:         Tina Wehrmeister, Senior Planner

Reviewed by:         Victor Carniglia, Deputy Director of Community Development

Approved by:         Joseph G. Brandt, Director of Community Development

Date:                September 3, 2004

Subject:             RDA-04-1 Davidon / Jacuzzi Property

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the City Council approve an allocation of 562 single family
residential units over four years (2005 ­ 125; 2006 ­ 150; 2007 ­ 150; 2008 ­ 137),
subject to conditions in the attached resolution.

BACKGROUND / DISCUSSION

Davidon Homes requests an allocation of 562 single family residential units over four
years (2005 ­ 125; 2006 ­ 150; 2007 ­ 150; 2008 ­ 137) under the Residential
Development Allocation Program. The site is approximately 170 acres and is generally
located west of the future State Route 4 Bypass and north of the McBail residential
project being developed north of Lone Tree Way (APN: 053-060-021, and portion of
053-072-013).

The RDAC reviewed this application on June 28, 2004. RDA applications are required
to achieve at least 50% of the total points possible to be eligible to receive an allocation.
The project received an overall score of 59% (298 out of 500). The RDAC did not take
an action on the project as the vote was split (Noes ­ Freitas, Conley; Ayes ­ Azevedo,
Henry).

There was some concern expressed at the RDAC meeting regarding the CFD lien offer
which was worded as up to $15,000 per unit. The applicant has attempted to address
this concern with a revised community benefit offer (see Attachment "D"). The applicant
is now offering a firm $15,000 per unit. Additionally, any future reimbursement owed to
Davidon for infrastructure improvements funded by the CFD is offered to the City for
additional community benefit improvements. The applicant has also submitted new
enhanced architectural renderings of the two products proposed for the development.
The Design Review Board will review architecture as part of the entitlement process
however; any architectural features that the Council considers a community
enhancement should be made a part of the RDA resolution.



TW:tll
                                                                              9-14-04
The Planning Commission recommended approval of allocations for this project on July
21, 2004. Minutes from this meeting are attached.

An RDA approval is a non-entitlement action. The purpose of the RDA process is to
determine the number of units a developer may submit for entitlement. The RDA
process should not be construed as an approval of subdivision design or density.
Future entitlement applications may require significant redesign and layout departure
from the RDA map. Future entitlement applications may be denied or may be approved
for fewer units than the RDA approval.

FINANCIAL IMPACT

The applicant is offering a community benefit contribution of $15,000 per residential unit
for construction of infrastructure identified by the East Lone Tree Financial Plan
(ELTSP). This offer could provide the majority of funding necessary to construct the full
four lanes of Slatten Ranch Road from the northern McBail property line to Laurel Road
and the State Route 4 Bypass interchange. Ultimately, these funds will be combined
with other funds from residential, commercial and employment developments in the
ELTSP area to construct all "backbone" infrastructure improvements in that area. Staff
believes construction of the Slatten Ranch Road link is critical in order to attract regional
retail and employment users to the area. Currently, the development interest in the
area has been from large regional retail entities which would provide significant sales
tax revenues to the City. A conservative estimate of the amount of sales tax the area
north of Slatten Ranch may generate is $1.8 to $2 million/yr.

Additional funds may be generated for community benefit / enhancement use pending
future studies regarding the reimbursement of CFD improvements.

OPTIONS

1. Continue the item for further discussion.

2. Deny the request for residential development allocations.

ATTACHMENTS

A:   June 28, 2004 RDAC Staff Report
B:   Planning Commission minutes
C:   RDAC Scoring
D:   Revised Offer




                                               2
                             RESOLUTION NO. 2004/118

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH APPROVING AN
    ALLOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS FOR THE DAVIDON / JACUZZI
                           SUBDIVISION


       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Antioch did receive an application
from Davidon Homes for the approval of development allocations for 562 single family
residential units over four years (2005 ­ 125; 2006 ­ 150; 2007 ­ 150; 2008 ­ 137) for
an approximately 170 acre site generally located west of the future State Route 4
Bypass and north of the McBail residential project being developed north of Lone Tree
Way (APN: 053-060-021, and portion of 053-072-013) (RDA-04-1); and

       WHEREAS, the City Council did receive a recommendation for approval of
residential allocations for this project from the Planning Commission; and

        WHEREAS, the approval of residential development allocations does not
constitute an entitlement to develop a project. The City may deny a future entitlement
application, or approve such an application for fewer units than the 562 allocations
requested; and

        WHEREAS, the allocation process is not subject to the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council duly gave notice of public meeting as required by
law; and

       WHEREAS, on September 14, 2004 the City Council duly held a public meeting,
received and considered evidence, both oral and documentary; and

        WHEREAS, it is hereby understood that any contributions, mitigations, and other
benefits that were agreed to as part of this allocation process shall be incorporated into
future entitlement submittal(s).

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council does hereby
APPROVE 562 single family residential units over four years (2005 ­ 125; 2006 ­ 150;
2007 ­ 150; 2008 ­ 137), subject to the following items and community benefits that the
applicant has agreed to provide:

1. That the applicant shall provide dual pane windows, tech shield roof sheathing, re-
   circulating hot water systems, Class A fire resistant roofs, prewired security alarm
   systems, and energy saver furnaces, air conditioner, and appliances as standard
   features on all homes.

2. That front yard landscaping shall utilize water saving techniques and plant materials.

3. That the applicant shall contribute a non-reimbursable Community Facilities District
   (CFD) lien of $15,000 per residential lot for construction of infrastructure identified by
   the East Lone Tree Financial Plan. This offer is contingent on the successful
   formation of a CFD that will provide for the construction of all such infrastructure with
   fair and reasonable liens on the other properties in FUA 2. Fair and reasonable liens
   shall be determined by a study by EPS which is presently being conducted.

4. The City and Davidon Homes shall enter into a Development Agreement (DA) which
   shall provide the framework for entitlement of the project. Davidon understands that
   RDA approval is not an entitlement and the plat provided for the RDA process
   showing 579 units shall be revised as part of the tentative map process. The DA
   shall further provide that Davidon has no obligation to construct additional off-site
   infrastructure that is not directly project related. The DA shall also confirm that
   bonds will be sold and CFD assessments will be payable only as necessary to
   complete the improvements approximately concurrent with the completion of the
   State Route 4 Bypass.

5. Upon finalization of the CFD, the City may determine that Davidon's contribution has
   exceeded that required for completion of East Lone Tree Specific Plan infrastructure.
   In this case, the excess funds shall be available for application to other projects
   enhancing the economic development of Antioch. The use of any excess funds shall
   be at the direction of the City Council.

6. That Davidon Homes shall participate in the new AUSD CFD 2004-1.

                      *       *      *       *      *       *       *

        I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by
the City Council of the City of Antioch at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 14th day
of September, 2004 by the following vote.

AYES:          Council Members Davis, Conley and Simonsen

NOES:          Mayor Freitas and Council Member Kalinowski

ABSENT:        None


                                                          L. JOLENE MARTIN, City Clerk
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                        Appendix H
              USACE and CDFG Jurisdictional
                    Determinations
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                           Appendix I
    Future Urbanization Area #2 Specific Plan
     Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Plan
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                          Appendix J
     City Council Resolution 2005/14
Amending General Plan Exterior Noise Levels
Davidon Homes ­ Park Ridge Subdivision 8846
Addendum to FUA #2 Specific Plan EIR, January 2009




                         Appendix K
                City of Antioch Project Pipeline
                        August 15, 2008
                                        CITY OF ANTIOCH PROJECT PIPELINE

                                                                    Residential Projects
Project     Project                     Applicant                      Location                  APN           Units            Site Size   Status                         Planner
Number(s)
RDA-03-07   Almondridge East Tract      KB Associates                  Philips Lane              051-200-053   81 SFD           21 acres    In plan check                  Gentry
PD-04-14    7906                        6700 Knoll Center Parkway                                                                           Approved
UP-04-30                                Pleasanton, CA 92821                                                                                PC scheduled 6/18/08
AR-05-23                                                                                                                                    CC approved 7/8/08
AR-07-17
UP-03-24    Baywoods Condo              AGI Capital Group              2005 San Jose Drive       076-440-032   Convert 128                  PC approved                    Gentry
V-04-07     Conversion                  1375 Sutter St #300                                                    apts to condos               Council approved
                                        San Francisco, CA 94109                                                                             1st phase completed
                                                                                                                                            2nd phase under construction
AR-06-09    Black Diamond Ranch         Discovery Builders             Somersville Road and                    Unit 1 58 SFD                Built                          Stahl
UP-01-25    7487, 8585, 8586            4061 Port Chicago HWY #1       James Donlon                            Unit 2 117 SFD               Under Const
                                        Concord, CA 94524                                                      Unit 3 105 SFD               Under Const
MDP-06-02   Deer Valley Estates         Allied Investments             Off Deer Valley Road      057-02-002    136 SFD          37.25       MDP PC approved 1/16/08        Morris
RDA-07-05                               1033 Detroit Avenue            north of Kaiser
                                        Concord, CA 94520
RDA-03-05   Golden Bow Estates 8538     Dhyanyoga Centers              Off Lexington             076-031-036   12 SFD                       Approved                       Gentry
                                        P.O. Box 3194
                                        Antioch, CA 94531
AR-04-40    Hidden Glen                 Arcadia Homes                  Off Hillcrest at Hidden                 Unit 1 89 SFD                Under Const                    Oshinsky
            6909,7505, 8387, 8388       115 Coleman Avenue             Glen                                    Unit 2 81 SFD                Approved
                                        San Jose, CA 95110                                                     Unit 3 111 SFD               Approved
                                                                                                               Unit 4 90 SFD                Approved
MDP-07-01   Leung Master Development    Waters Fund II, LLC            Southern boundary of      057-041-013   190 SFD          160 acres   On hold                        Oshinsky
            Plan (Sand Creek Estates)   150 Almaden Blvd, Ste 700      Antioch, west of Deer     057-041-016
                                        San Jose, CA 95113             Valley Road               057-041-015
            Meadow Creek Village        Albert D Seeno Construction    Off Lone Tree Way at                    Unit 1 55 SFD                Built                          Stahl
Updated 8/15/2008
            7862, 7947, 7967, 7971,   4021 Port Chicago Highway                                                Unit   2 77 SFD                 Built
            7897                      Concord, CA 94524                                                        Unit   3 108 SFD                Built
                                                                                                               Unit   4 96 SFD                 Built
                                                                                                               Unit   5 97 SFD                 Under Const
AR-03-33    Mira Vista Hills          Albert D Seeno Construction       Off James Donlon at                    Unit   13 95 SFD                Being Reviewed       Stahl
            6708, 6921                4021 Port Chicago Highway         east of Somersville                    Unit   16 85 SFD                Under const
                                      Concord, CA 94524
UP-04-01    Monterra (Nelson Ranch)   Standard Pacific Housing          Wild Horse Road          052-061-039   Unit 1 102 SFD     145 acres    Under Construction   Morris
AR-07-07    6893, 8850, 8851          3825 Hopyard Road #195                                                   Unit 2 128 SFD
                                      Pleasanton, CA 94588                                                     Unit 3 130 SFD
AR-04-45    Oakley Knolls             Discovery Builders                Off Oakley Road          051-180-014   16 SFD             5.5 acres    Approved             Gentry
                                      4061 Port Chicago HWY #1
                                      concord, CA 94524
            Oakley Meadows            Michelle Sidriean                 Off Oakley Road at                     13 SFD                          Approved             Gentry
                                      4160 S. Royal Links Circle
                                      Antioch, CA 94509
PD-08-03    Park Lake Apartments      Loving and Campos                 James Donlon Blvd        072-011-062   60 MFD             3.28 acres   Incomplete           Morris
AR-08-10                              345 Ygnacio Valley Road
                                      Walnut Creek, CA 94596
UP-08-04    Park Ridge                Davidon                           Canada Valley Road       053-060-023   562 SFD            171 Acres    In progress          Gentry
AR-05-05                              1600 S Main Street Ste 150
                                      Walnut Creek, CA 94596
MDP-05-01   Pulte Senior Housing      Pulte Homes                       At the end of Heidorn    057-030-001   550 +/- Del        194 acres    Incomplete           Welch
RDA-07-01                             6210 Stone Ridge Mall 5th Floor   Ranch Road               057-050-013   Webb adult
                                      Pleasanton, CA 94588                                                     community
PD-04-12    Renaissance at Bluerock   KB Homes                          Bluerock and Lone Tree                 86 SFD                          Under const          Morris
            8884                      6700 Knoll Center Parkway         Way
                                      Pleasanton, CA 94566
PDP-06-04   Rivertown Village         Don Ladpidus                      1700 4th Street          074-040-047   202 SFD                         PDP Processed        Oshinsky
                                      991 Solana court
                                      Mountainview, CA 94040
RDA-07-03   Roddy Ranch               Roddy Ranch PBC, LLC              West of Deer Valley      057-060-017   574 SFD                         In progress          Gentry
PD-07-03                              12885 Alcosta Blvd., Suite A      Road South of Empire                   +/- 126 multi
UP-08-05                              San Ramon, CA 94583               Mine Road                              family
AR-08-07                                                                                                       Hotel
RDA-04-03   Sand Creek Active Adult   Topaz Creek Investors             Empire Mine Road         057-010-001   1500 SFD -                      Approved             Wehrmeister
            Community                 275 Saratoga Ave #105                                                    senior
                                      Santa Clara, CA 95050
AR-05-01    Sand Creek Ranch          William Lyons Homes               Off Canada Valley Road                 8640 69 SFD                     Built                Stahl

Updated 8/15/2008
            8640, 8885, 8948              2603 Camino Ramon #150        & Lone Tree Way                        8885   42 SFD                  Under Const
                                          San Ramon, CA 94583                                                  8948   52 SFD                  Under Const
AR-05-02    Sand Creek Ranch Rivergate    Shea Homes                    Off Canada Valley Road                 8640   28 SFD                  Under Const                 Stahl
UP-08-06    8640, 8886, 8951              2580 Shea Center Drive        & Lone Tree Way                        8886   30 SFD                  Under Const
AR-08-09                                  Livermore, CA 94551                                                  8951   156 SFD                 Proposed unit mix change
                                                                                                                                              PC approved 7/2/08
                                                                                                                                              DRB approved 7/9/08
                                                                                                                                              Council scheduled 8/12/08
UP-04-28    Sierra Vista                  Suncrest Homes                                         075-052-016   50 SFD                         Approved
            7722                          300 H Street
                                          Antioch, CA 94509
PDP-08-01   Smith parcel                  LCA Architects                Southeast Antioch off    057-060-014   50 SFD and 8.5                 Accepted
RDA-08-01                                                               Deer Valley Road                       acres of retail
PDP-06-03   The Pointe                    Discovery Builders            North of James Donlon                  72 SFD                          RDA approved 1/22/08       Gentry
RDA-07-02                                 4061 Port Chicago Hwy #H      at Somersville                                                        In Progress
PD-08-01                                  Concord, CA 94520
UP-08-01
AR-08-03
PDP-06-05   Tierra Villas                 Mission Peak Homes            5020 Heidorn Ranch       056-130-013   122 SFD                                                    Morris
RDA-06-01                                 40480 Encyclopedia Circle     Road                                                                  RDA approved 1/22/08
PD-08-03                                  Fremont, CA 94538                                                                                   Accepted
UP-08-14
AR-08-12
UP-08-07    Vista Grande Mobile Estates   Vista Grande Mobile Estates   2901 Somersville Road    076-010-029   Addition of 6                  Incomplete                  Stahl
                                          2901 Somersville Road                                                new coach sites
                                          Antioch, CA 94509
PDP-07-03   Wilbur Townhomes              Joseph Bosman                 701 & 810 Wilbur         065-110-006   63 SFD            5.36 acres   RDA approved 1/22/08        Oshinsky
RDA-07-04                                 2281 Fairview Avenue          Avenue                   065-110-007
                                          Brentwood, CA 94513
MDP-06-01   Zeka Ranch Estates            Michael Milani                                                       314 SFD           639 acres    Incomplete                  Carniglia
                                          4071 Port Chicago Hwy
                                          Concord, CA 94520




Updated 8/15/2008
                                                                       Commercial Projects
Project     Project                  Application   Applicant                      Location            APN           Bldg Sq Ft                    Site Size   Status               Staff         Planner
Number(s)                                                                                                           Description                                                    Report/Reso
UP-07-07    1700 4th Street/Fowler                 Trinity Property Consultants   1700 4th Street     074-040-047   Re-establish temp uses                    PC approved 8/1/07                 Oshinsky
            Property                               851 81st Avenue, Ste 300                                         on property
                                                   Oakland, CA 94621
UP-08-02    1700 4th Street/Fowler                 Ron Merritt                    1700 4th Street     074-040-047   10 year temporary use for                 PC approved                        Oshinsky
            Property                               1666 Willow Pass Road                                            warehouse and
                                                   Bay Point, CA 94565                                              showroom
UP-06-08    4th Street Gift Shop                   Urban Impressions              4th Street near I   066-131-011   Construction of 2 story                   PC approved                        Stahl
AR-06-05                                           812 5th Ave. #D                Street                            mixed use building                        6/21/06
                                                   Oakland, CA 94606                                                                                          DRB approved
                                                                                                                                                              6/28/06
UP-07-13    Antioch Armory                         Allan Tong                     625 W 3rd           066-062-007   Sporting goods retail                     PC approved
                                                   Antioch, CA 94509              Street                            store for hunting, fishing,               1/16/08
                                                                                                                    etc.                                      Under construction
UP-08-10    Antioch High Scholl                    NSA Wireless                   700 W 18th                        New cell site located on                  Incomplete                         Stahl
            cell site                              12647 Alcosta Blvd #110        Street                            Antioch High football field
                                                   San Ramon, CA 94583
PD-04-09    Antioch Surgical                       MS Walker & Associates, Inc    3500 Hillcrest      052-370-010   Construct 5500 sq ft                      PC approved                        Oshinsky
UP-04-11    Center                                 3551 Pegasus Drive             Avenue                            outpatient surgery center                 4/18/07
AR-04-09                                           Bakersfield, CA 93308                                                                                      DRB approved
                                                                                                                                                              10/24/07
                                                                                                                                                              Council approved
UP-05-23    AUTOCARE 2000                          Anthony Tabacco & Assoc.       2700                074-123-013   Additional 2300 sq ft auto    0.66        PC approved                        Stahl
AR-06-08                                           7 Westwood Court               Somersville                       service facility                          1/18/06
                                                   Orinda, CA 94563               Road                                                                        DRB approved
                                                                                                                                                              3/8/06
                                                                                                                                                              Approval extended
                                                                                                                                                              1/18/08
UP-06-14    Bank of Agriculture                    Richard Miller                 Lone Tree Way       055-071-080   Subdivision of parcel and     2.4 acres   PDP to PC 11/7/07                  Gentry
AR-06-12                                           28 Marsala Way                 at Country Hills                  development of car wash                   In progress
                                                   Napa, CA 94558                                                   and bank
AR-05-13    Bases Loaded                           Cyndi Karp                     Corner of 4th       066-142-008   Construction of new           0.2 acres   DRB Approved                       Gentry
                                                   101 Corte del Pardo            Street and G                      restaurant and sports bar                 Under construction
                                                   Walnut Creek, CA 94598         Street

Updated 8/15/2008
UP-05-02   Bluerock Business      Reynolds & Brown              Bleu Rock Drive   072-012-107                                               Built                Wehrmeister
           Center                 1200 Concord Ave #200         at Lone Tree
                                  Concord, CA 94520             Way
PD-07-01   Buchanan Crossings     Catlin Properties             Buchanan Road     074-080-013   102,370 square foot            13.5 acres   PC approved 7/2/08
UP-07-06   Shopping Center        3620 Fair Oaks #150           at Somersville                  shopping center                             CC scheduled
AR-07-08                          Sacramento, CA 95864                                                                                      8/12/08

AR-07-13   Casino Building        Joe Martinez                  101 H Street      066-071-007   Remodel exterior of                         DRB scheduled        Gentry
           Remodel                590 Garland Way                                               building                                    8/13/08
                                  Brentwood, CA 94513
AR-06-21   Chevron Remodel        Chevron, USA,                 3400 Hillcrest    052-370-001   Remodel of existing                         DRB approved         Stahl
                                  145 S. State College #400     Avenue                          service station                             3/28/07
                                  Brea, CA 92821                                                                                            Under construction
AR-06-22   Chevron Remodel        Chevron, USA,                 4600 Lone Tree    055-170-002   Remodel of existing                         DRB Approved         Stahl
                                  145 S. State College #400     Way                             service station                             3/28/07
                                  Brea, CA 92821                                                                                            Under construction
AR-07-14   Chevron Remodel        Johnson United                3201 Delta Fair   074-121-006   Remodel of existing                         DRB approved         Stahl
                                  5201 Pentecost Drive          Boulevard                       Chevron station                             1/9/08
                                  Modesto, CA 95356                                                                                         Under Construction
Z-08-02    City Gate Rezone       Equus Group                                     051-200-026   Rezone from PBC to PD          15.94        PC scheduled         Gentry
                                  1120 2nd Street                                                                              acres        8/13/08
                                  Brentwood, CA 94513                                                                                       CC scheduled
                                                                                                                                            9/9/08

AR-05-26   Contra Loma Plaza      Choi & Robles Architecture    3190 Contra       076-550-004   New commercial pad                          Resubmitted          Stahl
           new commercial pad     1001 Marina Village Pkwy #S   Loma Blvd                                                                   DRB approved
                                  Alameda, CA 94501                                                                                         11/28/07
UP-07-01   Costco Gas Station     Costco                        Vern Roberts      074-052-020   New service station            1.16         Building permits     Gentry
AR-07-02   Costco Expansion &     999 Lake Drive                Circle at Crow    074-052-033   And relocate existing          14 acres     issued
UP-07-11   Bldg. Move             Issaquah, WA 98027            Ct                              building                                    Under construction
AR-05-29   Costco Relocation                                    2201 Verne                      Lot merger
UP-05-34                                                        Roberts Circle


PD-05-03   County Square Market   Global Seven Inc.             E Tregallas       052-232-019   New 30,860 sq ft market                     Under construction   Oshinsky
UP-05-13                          410 Contra Costa Blvd.        Road at
AR-05-12                          Pleasant Hill, CA 94523       Wildflower
UP-08-08   County Square Market   Global Seven Inc.             E Tregallas       052-232-019   Increase in 2nd floor office                In progress          Oshinsky
                                  410 Contra Costa Blvd.        Road at                         square footage
                                  Pleasant Hill, CA 94523       Wildflower
Updated 8/15/2008
UP-05-35   Deer Valley Business    MS Walker & Associates, Inc       SW Deer Valley     055-071-071   16 single user/multi         6 acres     DRB approved         Gentry
AR-06-07   Park Parcel 1 + Bldgs   3551 Pegasus Drive                at Country Hills                 tenant bldgs 1800-7000                   1/17/07
           N, O, P                 Bakersfield, CA 93308                                              sq ft                                    Building permit
                                                                                                                                               plans being
                                                                                                                                               reviewed
UP-04-31   Deer Valley Business    BE Deer Valley, LLC               Deer Valley        055-071-090   5 buildings totaling         3.8 acres   PC approved          Gentry
AR-04-43   Park Parcel 4           40 Rockingham Drive               Road and                         35,000 sq ft                             DRB approved
V-06-06                            Newport Beach, CA 92660           Country Hills                                                             Under construction
UP-06-06   Deer Valley Business    Chris Gnekow                      Deer Valley        055-071-072   30,000 sq ft + 17,200 sq     5 acres     PC approved          Gentry
AR-06-06   Park Silicon Valley     MS Walker & Associates            Road at Country                  ft                                       DRB approved
           College & office/flex   3551 Pegasus Drive                Hills                                                                     College built
           building                Bakersfield, CA 93308
S-06-03    Entry Signage           City of Antioch                   Various                          Approval of new Antioch                  DRB approved         Wehrmeister
                                                                     locations City                   City signage                             Council approved
                                                                     wide                                                                      In plan check
GP-06-02   Fitzuren commercial     John Rivolli                      909 Fitzuren       071-021-013   Construct 2 story building               Incomplete           Morris
UP-06-28   building with produce   427 Orchard View Ave              Road                             with commercial and
AR-06-20   market                  Martinez, CA 94553                                                 market uses
AR-08-06   Gas City re-branding    Promotions Plus Sign Co,          4198 Lone Tree     055-071-092   Re-branding of existing                  DRB approved         Stahl
           to Shell                4920 Reseda Blvd. #250            Way                              station to Shell Oil Co.                 7/9/08
                                   Northridge, CA 91324
S-06-07    Gateway monument        Cal Neon Illuminart Signs         Gateway Center     074-051-005   Installation of new          1.9 acres   DRB approved         Gentry
           signage                 1012 Morse Avenue, Suite 9        2101 W 10th                      monument sign                            Building permit
                                   Sunnyvale, CA 94809               Street                                                                    issued
AR-07-04   Golf Course             Lone Tree Golf Course             4800 Golf          072-011-020   Approval of monument                     DRB denied 4/25/07   Stahl
           Monument Sign           4800 Golf Course Road             Course Road                      sign installed without
                                   Antioch, CA 94531                                                  permits
PD-06-04   Hillcrest Summit        Bedrock Ventures Inc.             Hillcrest Avenue   052-100-055   1500 sq feet retail          5 acres     PC approved          Gentry
UP-06-21                           4045 Balfour Avenue               and E Tregallas                  35,077 sq ft office                      1/16/08
S-08-01                            Oakland, CA 94610                                                                                           DRB approved
                                                                                                                                               1/23/08
                                                                                                                                               City Council
                                                                                                                                               approved 2/26/08
PD-07-04   Hillcrest Village       Venture Corp.                     Hillcrest Ave @    052-140-002   Mixed use                                In progress
UP-07-21                           125 E Sir Francis Drake, 3rd Fl   Wildflower                       commercial/retail approx
AR-07-24                           Larkspur, CA 94939                                                 96,000 s.f.
S-08-04    Holy Cross Cemetery     Catholic Cemetery                 2200 E 18th        051-170-040   Installation of new                      Incomplete           Stahl
           Monument Sign           PO Box 488                        Street                           monument signage
                                   Lafayette, CA 94549

Updated 8/15/2008
UP-07-16   In Shape Health Club      In Shape Health Clubs Inc       4065 Lone Tree     072-012-084   Add slide to outdoor pool       17.8 acres   PC approved 4/2/08     Gentry
AR-07-12   pool slide                1016 E. Bianchi Rd, #A-23       Way                                                                           DRB approved
                                     Stockton, CA 95210                                                                                            4/9/08
                                                                                                                                                   In plan review
V-08-05    Islamic Center fence      Islamic Center of East Bay      315 W 18th         067-221-021   Install a 4 foot fence                       Accepted
                                     315 W 18th Street               Street                           within the landscape
                                     Antioch, CA 94509                                                setback
AR-08-13   Jack-in-the-Box sign      Stantec Consulting              2705 Hillcrest     052-012-057   Repaint exterior of                          Accepted
           and re-image              6070 West Oaks Blvd. #200       Avenue                           building and modify
                                     Rocklin, CA 95765                                                exterior signage
AR-07-18   Jensen Office Building    Terry Jensen                    Lone Tree Way      071-101-022   Design review of new 2          0.23 acres   DRB                    Stahl
                                     4913 Union Mine Ct                                               story office building                        approved11/28/07
                                     Antioch, CA 94509                                                                                             In plan review
V-08-01    Juliet Plaza              2100 Holdings LLC               2100 L Street at   074-343-034   7400 square foot retail                      Incomplete             Stahl
AR-08-04                             1280 11th Avenue                Sycamore Drive                   soace
                                     San Francisco, CA 94122
FD-03-06   Kaiser Medical Center     Kaiser Foundation Hospitals     6200 Deer          057-022-003   60,500 sq ft medical                         Building constructed   Oshinsky
UP-03-26                             1950 Franklin Street 12th Flr   Valley Road                      building
AR-03-38                             Oakland, CA 94605
UP-06-19   Little Angels Preschool   Estella Sierra                  1816 Hillcrest     068-091-042   Operation of new                             PC approved            Gentry
AR-06-24                             1816 Hillcrest Avenue           Avenue                           preschool                                    DRB approved
                                     Antioch, CA 94509                                                                                             Building permit
                                                                                                                                                   issued
UP-08-03   Live Entertainment        Street Titans, LLC              422 W 2nd                        Permit to allow recurring                    PC approved            Stahl
           permit for Mutiny         422 W 2nd Street                Street                           live entertainment at                        5/21/08
                                     Antioch, CA 94509                                                Mutiny
UP-08-09   Lone Tree                 BG Market                       5005 Lone Tree                   Convenience store with                       In progress            Oshinsky
           Convenience Store         4040 Meadowlake Street          Way                              liquor sales at Lone Tree
                                     Antioch, CA 94509                                                Landing
PD-        Lone Tree Landing         John Tomasello                  Lone Tree Way      056-012-024   81,690 sq feet retail           413,790      Partially completed    Oshinsky
AR-04-26                             516 Nelly Court                 at Hillcrest                     center                          sq ft
UP-04-21                             Alamo, CA 94507
AR-06-23   Lone Tree Landing         John Tomasello                  Lone Tree Way      056-012-024   New water feature on                         DRB approved           Oshinsky
UP-06-24   Water Feature             516 Nelly Court                 at Hillcrest                     corner                                       3/14/07
                                     Alamo, CA 94507                                                                                               City Council
                                                                                                                                                   approved 5/22/07
                                                                                                                                                   Completed
PD-07-02   Markstein Distribution    ARCO National                                                    New 101,646 sq foot                          PC approved            Morris
UP-07-08   Center                    1155 Beecher Street                                              office/ distribution facility                DRB approved
AR-07-11                             San Leandro, CA 94577                                                                                         11/14/07
Updated 8/15/2008
                                                                                                                                       Under construction

UP-07-05   McDonald's Remodel      McDonalds                  2424 Mahogany    074-370-011   Remodel existing building                 Lot merger           Gentry
AR-07-06                           299 Oak Road #900          Way                            and play place                            approved 12/5/07
                                   Walnut Creek, CA 94597                                                                              Resubmitting
S-07-03    Meineke & Econo         All Sign Services          1710 Auto        074-171-021   Re-branding of existing                   DRB approved
           Lube Signage            1290 Waterfall Way         Center Drive                   Econo Lube site                           10/24/07
                                   Concord, CA 94521                                                                                   Under construction
UP-07-23   Metro PCS antenna at    Network Development        Neroly Road      053-060-013   Add antenna at existing                   PC approved          Stahl
AR-08-01   existing water tank     1080 Marina Village Pkwy                                  non City owned water                      4/16/08
           site                    Alameda, CA 94501                                         tank site
UP-07-22   Metro PCS co-location   Network Development        5201 Deer        05-170-006    Add antenna to building                   ZA approved          Stahl
AR-07-25   Deer Valley Road        1080 Marina Village Pkwy   Valley Road                    roof top                                  3/18/08
                                   Alameda, CA 94501                                                                                   DRB approved
                                                                                                                                       4/9/08
UP-05-30   Perinatal Council       Barbara Bunn McCullough    521 W 5th        066-143-003   Addition to existing                      PC approved          Stahl
AR-05                              2648International Blvd     Street                         building                                  10/19/05
                                   Oakland, CA 94601                                                                                   DRB approved
                                                                                                                                       12/14/05
                                                                                                                                       Under construction
V-08-02    Perinatal Council       Barbara Bunn McCullough    521 W 5th        066-143-004   Variance to install wood                  Incomplete           Stahl
                                   2648International Blvd     Street                         fence instead of masonry
                                   Oakland, CA 94601                                         brick wall
UP-06-17   Produce Market          Frank Hamedi               914 A Street     066-172-001   Remodel building and          0.4 acres   Incomplete           Gentry
AR-06-15                           131 Tully Road                                            operate produce market
V-06-03                            San Jose, CA 9511
S-06-04    Raley's Monument        American Electric Sign     3612 Lone Tree   071-171-031   Add monument sign                         DRB Approved         Stahl
           Sign                    3710 Lone Tree Way #113    Way                                                                      12/20/06
                                   Antioch, CA 94509
AR-07-26   Raley's Shopping        Cal-American               3612 Lone Tree   071-181-031   Remodel of existing                       DRB denied 4/23/08   Stahl
           Center remodel          1925 Century Park East     Way                            shopping center
                                   #2100
                                   Los Angeles, CA 90067
UP-08-11   Ramada Inn Cell Site    Black Dot Wireless         2436 Mahogany    074-370-022   New cell sites located in a               Incomplete           Stahl
AR-08-11                           320 Commerce, Ste 200      Way                            new Ramada sign
V-08-03                            Irvine, CA 92602
GP-07-01   Reynold's & Brown GP    Reynold's and Brown        Northwest        072-012-087   Change GP and zoning to                   In progress          Morris
Z-07-05    amendment and           1200 Concord Avenue        corner of Lone                 Neighborhood/Community
           Rezone                  Concord, CA 94520          Tree Way and                   Commercial zoning
                                                              Golf Course                    designation
Updated 8/15/2008
                                                                 Road

UP-06-13   Rivertown Business      Architectural Network, Inc.   I Street and 1st   066-091-010   16,000 sq ft new                            Extension Approved   Oshinsky
           Center                  111 Civic Drive #260          Street                           office/restaurant
                                   Walnut Creek, CA 94596
AR-03-36   Seventh Day Adventist   Delta View Enterprises        2200 Country       055-071-105   New 39,000 sq ft church                     DRB 2/21/04          Stahl
           Church                  3737 Lone Tree Way            Hills                                                                        DRB (landscape)
                                   Antioch, CA 94509                                                                                          3/1/06
                                                                                                                                              Under construction
AR-08-02   Seventh Day Adventist   Delta View Enterprises        2200 Country       055-071-105   New 8-plex administrative                   DRB approved         Stahl
           Church 8-plex           3737 Lone Tree Way            Hills                            housing unit.                               5/14/08
           Administrative          Antioch, CA 94509
           Housing
UP-05-22   St Ignatius Church      Roman Catholic Bishop,        3351 Contra        071-370-026   12,995 sq ft expansion of                   Building permit      Gentry
AR-05-22   Expansion               3551 Contra Loma Blvd.        Loma Blvd                        existing church                             issued for on-site
                                   Antioch, CA 94509                                                                                          work

UP-05-31   Starbucks @ Hillcrest   Java Acquisition company      Hillcrest Ave &    052-460-011   Starbucks and retail           3 acres      PC approved          Gentry
AR-05-27   and Wildflower          0049                          Wildflower                       center                                      11/7/07
                                   135 East 57th Street, 23rd                                                                                 DRB approved
                                   Floor                                                                                                      11/14/07
                                   New York, NY 10022
AR-07-16   Starbucks at            Starbucks                     2500               074-450-036   New Starbucks                               DRB approved         Gentry
S-07-05    Somersville Towne       17700 New Hope St. Ste 200    Somersville                                                                  10/10/07
           Center                  Fountain Valley, CA 92708     Road                                                                         Under construction
UP-05-36   Sunset Drive Indoor     Steve Fosenburg               1210 Sunset        068-253-003   Indoor Hockey Rink and                      Approved             Wehrmeister
AR-05-31   Sports Center           PO Box 4516                   Drive                            batting cages                               In plan check
                                   Antioch, CA 94509
UP-07-14   T-Mobile cell site at   Alex Monk                     2601 Deer          057-022-014   T-mobile proposes to                        In progress          Stahl
AR-07-19   Kaiser Deer Valley      185 Berry Street Suite 5300   Valley Road                      install wireless antennas
                                   San Francisco, CA 94107                                        on Kaiser roof top
UP-07-03   Tobin World             MS Walker & Associates        2310 Country       055-071-090   Approval of 9600 sq ft         9600 sq ft   PC approved 8/1/07   Gentry
                                   3551 Pegasus Drive            Hills Drive                      school for autistic children                Under construction
                                   Bakersfield, CA 93308                                                                                      TCO issued
S-08-02    Union 76 monument       Promotions Plus Sign Co,      2701 Contra        071-011-036   Approval of new                             DRB scheduled        Diaz
           sign                    4920 Reseda Blvd. #250        Loma Blvd.                       monument sign for                           8/27/08
                                   Northridge, CA 91324                                           existing service station
AR-07-21   Vineyard Business       Carnmer Properties            1699 Vineyard      051-052-074   3 new multi tenant                          DRB approved
           Park Phase III          PO Box 2665                   Drive                            commercial buildings                        1/15/08
                                   Walnut Creek, CA 94595                                         36,640 s.f. total
Updated 8/15/2008
AR-04-25   WalMart Expansion   Robert A. Karn & Associates   4893 Lone Tree   056-011-030   33,575 sq ft expansion                    Resubmitted/In   Gillarde
                               707 Beek Avenue               Way                            with additional parking                   progress
                               Fairfield, CA 94553
AR-07-09   Williamson Ranch    John Blatter                  Lone Tree Way    056-011-058   2 story 20,026 s.f. office   1.25 acres   DRB approved     Gillarde
           Office building     350 Main St., Suite K                                        building                                  8/22/07
                               Pleasanton, CA 94566                                                                                   In plan review




Updated 8/15/2008

