        Mitigated Negative Declaration
                      and Initial Study


                Office/Research Facility
               within Innovation Village

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona




                                        June 2014
        Mitigated Negative Declaration



                Office/Research Facility
               within Innovation Village

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona




                                                      Lead Agency
                        The Trustees of the California State University;
                       California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
                                   Facilities Planning and Management
                                             3801 West Temple Avenue
                                                     Pomona, CA 91768




                                            Consultant to Lead Agency
                                                Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc.
                                       444 South Flower Street, Suite 800
                                                 Los Angeles, CA 90071
                           MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION

                          Office/Research Facility within Innovation Village
                          California State Polytechnic University, Pomona


Lead Agency                        The Trustees of the California State University;
and Project Proponent:             California State Polytechnic University, Pomona

Mailing Address                    Facilities Planning and Management
and Telephone Number:              3801 West Temple Avenue
                                   California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
                                   Pomona, CA 91768
                                   (909) 979 - 5517

Project Location:                  California State Polytechnic University campus,
                                   Pomona, Los Angeles County


Description of Project: The project is the construction and operation of an approximately
123,000 square-foot office/research facility within the University’s Innovation Village. The
facility will be located on an approximately 7-acre portion of the 65-acre Innovation Village site,
south of Kellogg Drive and east of Innovation Way.

The office/research facility will be a 3-story, concrete tilt-up building, with a formal entry way,
an outdoor plaza, and surface parking providing approximately 446 parking spaces around the
building. The building design will be similar to the design of the two other existing
research/office facilities within Innovation Village and include varied setbacks and elevations,
articulated building façades, varied roof lines, and other multiple architectural features that create
a distinct visual image. The site will be landscaped with a rich variety of trees and plants and will
include gravel beds located within landscaped areas stretching along the site’s boundaries and designed as
a bio-filtration swale.

The facility is anticipated to be completed by Spring 2016.

Project Objectives: The development of the office/research facility will implement the Campus
Master Plan goals of supporting public/private partnerships that further the University’s
educational mission and increase community involvement by expanding and strengthening
partnerships with business and industry. Innovation Village is a master-planned community of
technology-based enterprises that include academically driven functions where Cal Poly students
and faculty may participate in work, study, and research partnerships with private entities.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY                                       MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                                         i   OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITYWITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                            FINDING

The Trustees of the California State University have determined that the proposed project does
not have a potential to result in a significant adverse effect on the environment because the
potential impacts from construction and operation of the project will be reduced to less than
significant levels by implementing the following mitigation measures:


      1. During high wind episodes (wind speeds exceeding a sustained rate of 25 miles per
         hour); grading or other high-dust generating activities will be suspended.

      2. During smog alerts, all construction activities will be suspended.

      3. All construction equipment will be properly tuned.

      4. Gasoline, butane, or electric power construction equipment will be used if feasible.

      5. Low VOC-content asphalt and concrete will be utilized to the extent possible.

      6. Exposed soils will be watered twice daily.

      7. Speeds on unpaved roads will be limited to less than 15 miles per hour.

      8. All haul trucks that carry contents subject to airborne dispersal will be covered.

      9. All access points to the construction site used by haul trucks will be kept clean during
         site grading.

      10. Construction-related truck traffic will be scheduled to avoid peak travel time on I-10
          Freeway and State Route 57, as feasible.

      11. The project will institute a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to reduce
          the entry of construction debris, sediment, and other material from the construction
          site into local waterways. The SWPPP may include the following:

                Schedule excavation and grading work for dry weather
                Use as little water as possible for dust control
                Never hose down dirty pavement or impermeable surfaces where fluids have
                 spilled
                Avoid excavation and grading activities during wet weather
                Construct diversion dikes to channel runoff around the site and line channels
                 with grass or roughened pavement to reduce the velocity of runoff
                Install sediment filters and/or debris traps at or near entrances to the storm drain
                 system
                Cover stockpiles and excavated soil with tarps or plastic sheeting
                Plant permanent vegetation as soon as possible

      12. Construction hours will be restricted per City of Pomona regulations, which limit the
          hours of construction activity between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm Monday through Friday,
          and from 8:00 am and 6:00 pm on Saturdays. No construction activity will take place

CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY                                     MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                                      ii   OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITYWITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
           on Sunday or federal holidays.

      13. Muffled construction equipment will be used whenever possible.

      14. A telephone number and name of a contact person for registering comments or
          complaints will be posted in a clearly visible manner along the perimeter of the
          construction site.

      15. Construction staging areas will be located as far as possible from nearby uses.

      16. South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue: Convert the existing southbound shared
          through/left-turn lane into a shared through/left-turn/right-turn lane. This can be
          implemented by restriping the center shared through/left-turn lane for a shared
          through/left-turn/right-turn operation. After the mitigation, the southbound approach
          would provide one left-turn lane, one shared through/left-turn/right-turn lane, and one
          right-turn lane. This improvement can be accommodated within the existing right-of-
          way.

      17. Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue: Convert one of the existing southbound through
          lanes into a shared through/right-turn lane. This can be implemented by restriping the
          through lane for a shared through/right-turn operation. After the mitigation, the
          southbound approach would provide one left-turn lane, one through lane, one shared
          through/right-turn lane, and one right-turn lane. This improvement can be
          accommodated within the existing right-of-way.

      18. Construction-related truck traffic will be scheduled to avoid peak travel time on the I-
          10 freeway, and State Route 57, as feasible.

      19. Space will be provided for recycling facilities (e.g. bins).

      20. The facility will provide adequate storage area for collection and removal of
          recyclable materials.

      21. Construction debris will be recycled to the extent possible.


Supporting Documentation: The documentation supporting this determination is discussed in
the attached Initial Study prepared for this project.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY                                     MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                                     iii   OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITYWITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                        Initial Study



                 Office/Research Facility
                within Innovation Village

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona




                                                      Lead Agency
                        The Trustees of the California State University;
                       California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
                                   Facilities Planning and Management
                                             3801 West Temple Avenue
                                                     Pomona, CA 91768




                                            Consultant to Lead Agency
                                                Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc.
                                       444 South Flower Street, Suite 800
                                                 Los Angeles, CA 90071
                                                                               Initial Study

1.     Project Title: Office/Research Facility within Innovation Village

2.     Lead Agency Name and Address:            The Trustees of the California State University;
                                                California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
                                                3801 West Temple Avenue
                                                Pomona, CA 91768

3.     Contact Person and Phone Number: Bruyn Bevans, Senior Project Manager
                                        Facilities Planning and Management
                                        (909) 979 – 5517

4.     Project Location: California State Polytechnic University, Pomona campus, Pomona, Los
       Angeles County

5.     Project Sponsor's Name and Address: Same as Lead Agency

6.     Campus Master Plan Designation: Technology Research Park

7.     Zoning: n/a

8.     Project Description: The project is the construction and operation of an approximately 123,000
       square-foot office/research facility within the University’s Innovation Village.

       University Objectives: The development of the office/research facility will implement the
       Campus Master Plan goals of supporting public/private partnerships that further the University’s
       educational mission and increase community involvement by expanding and strengthening
       partnerships with business and industry. Innovation Village is a master-planned community of
       technology-based enterprises that include academically driven functions where Cal Poly students
       and faculty may participate in work, study, and research partnerships with private entities.

       Project Characteristics: The office/research facility will be located on an approximately 7-acre
       portion of the 65-acre Innovation Village site, south of Kellogg Drive and east of Innovation Way
       (see Figure 1). The facility will be a 3-story, concrete tilt-up building, with a formal entry way, an
       outdoor plaza, and surface parking providing approximately 446 spaces around the building.
       Access to the site will be provided from Innovation Way and Kellogg Drive. The existing median
       on Kellogg Drive will be modified to provide both right and left turn access to the facility.

       The building design will be similar to the design of the two other existing research/office
       facilities which include varied setbacks and elevations, articulated building façades, varied roof


CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                  INITIAL STUDY
                                                      1                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                   WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
      lines, and other multiple architectural features that create a distinct visual image.

      The facility is anticipated to be completed by Spring 2016.

9.    Surrounding Land Uses and Setting: Surrounding uses include the existing American Red
      Cross, CTTI, and two Southern California Edison office/research facilities within Innovation
      Village. Innovation Way defines the western boundary of the project site, Kellogg Drive abuts
      the site to the north, and Valley Boulevard defines the site’s eastern boundary.




                                       Figure 1: Project Location




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                  INITIAL STUDY
                                                     2                              OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                   WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                        Figure 2: Project Site




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                INITIAL STUDY
                                                  3               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                 WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
10.    CSU and Other Public Agencies whose approval will be sought:

              The Trustees of the California State University
               Approval of the construction of the office/research facility and related infrastructure
               improvements, including the development plan and schematic plans

              City of Pomona
               Issuance of permits for construction of utility and roadway improvements within the City
               right-of-way; approval of other utility arrangements, if any

              Los Angeles County Flood Control District
               Approval of increase in quantity of stormwater

              Regional Water Quality Control Board
               Issuance of NPDES permit

              Others, as may be necessary




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                  INITIAL STUDY
                                                     4                              OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                   WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Evaluation of Environmental Impacts
The University prepared the Campus Master Plan in 2000. The Final EIR for the Campus Master Plan was
completed in June 2000. The provision of approximately 900,000 square feet of new technology-based
facilities within the 65-acre Innovation Village was analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR. The project
will result in an approximately 123,000 square-foot facility and associated infrastructure improvements on
an approximately 7-acre portion of the Innovation Village site. No change in student enrollment
considered in the Master Plan will occur as a result of the project. Development of the office/research
facility is consistent with the Campus Master Plan and will comply with mitigation measures identified in
the Campus Master Plan EIR. As allowed and encouraged by CEQA, this Initial Study tiers off the
analysis of environmental impacts evaluated in the Campus Master Plan EIR, incorporated herein by
reference.

The purpose of the evaluation of the project’s potential environmental impacts is to determine whether the
project could result in new significant impacts not identified in the Campus Master Plan 2000 EIR, or a
substantial increase in the impacts identified in the EIR. Where the project will result in a significant
unavoidable impact that was already identified in the EIR, no additional environmental evaluation is
needed or required and the “No New Impact” box is checked in the Environmental Checklist. Where the
project will result in a significant impact that was already identified in the previous EIR and where
mitigation identified in the EIR will still be implemented as part of the project, no additional
environmental evaluation is needed or required, and the “No New Impact” box is checked in the
Environmental Checklist. The Checklist issues not evaluated in the EIR are evaluated herein.


Environmental Factors Potentially Affected
The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least
one new or increased impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the
following pages.


                                            Agriculture and Forestry
       Aesthetics                                                               Air Quality
                                            Resources

       Biological Resources                 Cultural Resources                  Greenhouse Gas Emissions
                                            Hazards & Hazardous
       Geology /Soils                                                           Hydrology/Water Quality
                                            Materials
       Land Use/Planning                    Mineral Resources                   Noise
       Population/Housing                   Public Services                     Recreation
                                            Utilities/Service Systems            Mandatory Findings of
       Transportation/Traffic
                                                                                 Significance




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                INITIAL STUDY
                                                     5                            OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                 WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                       Less than
                                                     Potentially    Significant New    Less than
                                                       New or         or Increased     Significant
                                                     Increased        Impact with        New or       No New or
                                                     Significant       Mitigation      Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                Impact        Incorporated        Impact        Impact

I. AESTHETICS -- Would the project:

    a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a
    scenic vista?

    b) Substantially damage scenic resources,
    including, but not limited to, trees, rock
    outcroppings, and historic buildings within a
    State scenic highway?

    c) Substantially degrade the existing visual
    character or quality of the site and its
    surroundings?

    d) Create a new source of substantial light or
    glare which would adversely affect day or
    nighttime views in the area?

a. Innovation Village is located within the Cal Poly Pomona campus in a developed area that does not provide
scenic vistas. The project site is not a designated scenic vista, nor will the project block the view of a scenic
resource as there is no such resource at or near the project site. No adverse impact will result.

b. The campus is not located within a State scenic highway. The project site is vacant and surrounded by urban
development and does not contain trees, rock outcroppings, or historic structures. No adverse impact will result.

c. The three-story office/research facility will be of similar height and design as the existing tree-story
office/research facilities within Innovation Village and will be compatible with the existing development within
the Innovation Village and with various commercial developments within the surrounding area of Pomona. The
project will add landscaping where none currently exists. No new adverse impact will result.

d. No light-sensitive uses adjoin the project site. The parking areas will require standard safety lighting but as
stated in the Campus Master Plan EIR “all lighting for new facilities and improvements will be shielded and
focused away from the surrounding uses”. Compliance with the Campus Master Plan will ensure that no new
adverse impact will result.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                       INITIAL STUDY
                                                         7                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                        WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                      Less than
                                                     Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                       New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                     Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                     Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                                Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
II. AGRICULTURE AND FOREST
RESOURCES: In determining whether impacts
to agricultural resources are significant
environmental effects, lead agencies may refer to
the California Agricultural Land Evaluation and
Site Assessment Model (1997) prepared by the
California Dept. of Conservation as an optional
model to use in assessing impacts on agriculture
and farmland. In determining whether impacts to
forest resources, including timberland, are
significant environmental effects, lead agencies
may refer to information compiled by the
California Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection regarding the state’s inventory of
forest land, including the Forest and Range
Assessment Project and the Forest Legacy
Assessment project; and forest carbon
measurement technology provided in Forest
Protocols adopted by the California Air
Resources Board. Would the project:

    a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique
    Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide
    Importance (Farmland), as shown on the
    maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland
    Mapping and Monitoring Program of the
    California Resources Agency, to non-
    agricultural use?

    b) Conflict with existing zoning for
    agricultural use, or a Williamson Act
    contract?

    c) Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause
     rezoning of, forest land (as defined in
    Public Resources Code section 12220(g)),
    timberland (as defined in Public Resources
    section 4256) or timberland zoned
    Timberland Production (as defined by
    Government Code section 51104(g)?

    d) Result in the loss of forest land or
    conversion of forest land to non-forest use?



CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                    INITIAL STUDY
                                                        8                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                     WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                       Less than
                                                      Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                        New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                      Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                      Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact

    e) Involve other changes in the existing
    environment which, due to their location or
    nature, could result in conversion of
    Farmland, to non-agricultural use or
    conversion of forest land to non-forest use?

a through e. The development of the entire Innovation Village and the resultant conversion of farmland to urban
uses have been addressed in the Final EIR for the Campus Master Plan - which identified the impact as
significant and unavoidable. The project site is part of the Innovation Village and is currently vacant. The
development with an office/research facility is consistent with the objectives of the Master Plan for the
Technology Research Park/Innovation Village, and the project site is designated for “technology research park”
uses on the Campus Master Plan land use map. Therefore, the project will not conflict with any zoning for
agricultural use. No property under Williamson Act contract exists on the Cal Poly Pomona campus, and no
forest land exist on campus. Therefore, no new or increased adverse impact beyond that already addressed in the
Campus Master Plan EIR will occur as a result of the project.

III. AIR QUALITY -- Where available, the
significance criteria established by the applicable
air quality management or air pollution control
district may be relied upon to make the following
determinations. Would the project:

    a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation
    of the applicable air quality plan?

    b) Violate any air quality standard or
    contribute substantially to an existing or
    projected air quality violation?

    c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net
    increase of any criteria pollutant for which
    the project region is non-attainment under an
    applicable federal or state ambient air
    quality standard (including releasing
    emissions which exceed quantitative
    thresholds for ozone precursors)?

    d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial
    pollutant concentrations?

    e) Create objectionable odors affecting a
    substantial number of people?



CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                     INITIAL STUDY
                                                         9                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                      WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                       Less than
                                                     Potentially    Significant New      Less than
                                                       New or         or Increased       Significant
                                                     Increased        Impact with          New or         No New or
                                                     Significant       Mitigation        Increased        Increased
Issues:                                                Impact        Incorporated          Impact          Impact

a. The effects of development of Innovation Village on the Regional Air Quality Management Plan were
analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR. The Final EIR determined that implementation of the Campus Master
Plan will not affect regional growth projections on which the air quality plan is based. Development of the
office/research facility is consistent with the objectives and land use designations of the Master Plan for this
portion of the campus. Therefore, no new adverse impact will result from the proposed project.

b and c. The Cal Poly Pomona campus is located within the South Coast Air Basin. The Basin is a non-
attainment area for ozone (O3), fine particulate matter (PM10), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen
(NOx).

Thresholds Used to Determine Level of Impact

The thresholds of significance used by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) for
emissions within the South Coast Air Basin from construction and operation of individual facilities are listed in
Table 1. SCAQMD considers projects in the South Coast Air Basin that exceed any of these emission thresholds
to have a significant air quality impact.

                                              Table 1
                         SCAQMD Thresholds for Emissions of Criteria Pollutants
                                         (pounds per day)

         Criteria Pollutant                Short-term Construction                    Long-term Operation
 Reactive Organic Gases (ROG)                        75                                        55
 Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx)                            100                                       55
 Carbon Monoxide (CO)                                550                                      550
 Fine Particulate Matter (PM10)                      150                                      150

Long-term Operational Impact

Operational emissions will be generated from vehicular travel to and from the office/research facility, as well as
energy usage and wastewater treatment. Daily operations emissions were calculated using the CalEEMod model
for both winter and summer under future Year 2016 with project conditions, and the highest emissions estimates -
in this case summer, are reported herein.
                                                    Table 2
                                         Project Operational Emissions
                                                (pounds per day)

                                  ROG                 NOx                    CO                        PM10
 Area Source                       9.1                negl.                 negl.                       negl.
 Energy                           negl.                0.4                    0.3                       negl.
 Vehicular Emissions               5.1                14.3                   59.0                        9.5
 Total Emissions                  14.2                14.7                   59.3                        9.5
 SCAQMD Threshold                 55.0                55.0                  550.0                      150.0
 Threshold Exceeded?               No                  No                     No                         No

CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                        10                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                           Less than
                                                       Potentially      Significant New   Less than
                                                         New or           or Increased    Significant
                                                       Increased          Impact with       New or        No New or
                                                       Significant         Mitigation     Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                  Impact          Incorporated       Impact         Impact

Since the emissions will be substantially below the SCAQMD threshold amounts, impact will be less than
significant.

Short-Term Construction Impact

The construction of the office/research facility will include grading and other site preparation activities. The
daily peak short-term construction emissions generated by workers traveling to and from the site, construction
equipment, and dust emissions were calculated using the CalEEMod model.

Including compliance with existing regulations, such as watering exposed soils and unpaved roads twice per day,
limiting speed on unpaved roads to 15 miles per hour, using properly tuned construction equipment, and covering
the trucks load contents subject to airborne dispersal, the peak day construction emissions will be approximately:

                                                   Table 3
                                   Project Peak Day Construction Emissions
                                               (pounds per day)

                                  ROG                  NOx                       CO                     PM10
 Peak Emissions                   61.8                  57.0                     44.0                    21.4
 SCAQMD Threshold                 75.0                 100.0                    550.0                   150.0
 Threshold Exceeded?               No                    No                       No                      No

These peak emissions are below the SCAQMD threshold amounts.                  Nonetheless, the following measures
identified in the Campus Master Plan EIR will be implemented:

    1.    During high wind episodes (wind speeds exceeding a sustained rate of 25 miles per hour); grading or
          other high-dust generating activities will be suspended.
    2.    During smog alerts, all construction activities will be suspended.
    3.    All construction equipment will be properly tuned.
    4.    Gasoline, butane, or electric power construction equipment will be used if feasible.
    5.    Low VOC-content asphalt and concrete will be utilized to the extent possible.
    6.    Exposed soils will be watered twice daily.
    7.    Speeds on unpaved roads will be limited to less than 15 miles per hour.
    8.    All haul trucks that carry contents subject to airborne dispersal will be covered.
    9.    All access points to the construction site used by haul trucks will be kept clean during site grading.

Short-term construction-related impact will be less than significant.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                         INITIAL STUDY
                                                         11                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                          WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                          Less than
                                                         Potentially   Significant New      Less than
                                                           New or        or Increased       Significant
                                                         Increased       Impact with          New or        No New or
                                                         Significant      Mitigation        Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                    Impact       Incorporated          Impact         Impact

d. There are no sensitive receptors adjoining the project site. The closest sensitive receptors to the site are single-
family homes located to the north of the University Village. Those homes are separated from the project site by
the Red Cross facility on an approximately 19-acre portion of the Innovation Village, across Kellogg Drive from
the site and to the north of the project site. The project is an office/research facility that will not expose sensitive
receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations, including those associated with the project-related traffic. The
traffic study prepared for the project indicates that the vehicular traffic patterns associated with the project will
have no significant impact on the intersection of Valley Boulevard/Kellogg Drive which is the closest to these
uses, as this intersection will continue to operate at acceptable level of service during both morning and evening
peak traffic hours. No new or increased impact will result.

e. The office/research facility operations are not associated with the generation of objectionable odors that could
affect a substantial number of people. All operations will be conducted within the fully enclosed facility. No
adverse impact will result.

IV. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES -- Would the
project:
    a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either
    directly or through habitat modifications, on any
    species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or
    special status species in local or regional plans,
    policies, or regulations, or by the California
    Department of Fish and Wildlife or U.S. Fish
    and Wildlife Service?


    b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any
    riparian habitat or other sensitive natural
    community identified in local or regional plans,
    policies, regulations, or by the California
    Department of Fish and Game or US Fish and
    Wildlife Service?

    c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally
    protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of
    the Clean Water Act (including, but not limited
    to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through
    direct removal, filling, hydrological
    interruption, or other means?




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                           INITIAL STUDY
                                                           12                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                            WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                         Less than
                                                        Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                          New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                        Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                        Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                                   Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact

    d) Interfere substantially with the movement of
    any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife
    species or with established native resident or
    migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use
    of native wildlife nursery sites?


    e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances
    protecting biological resources, such as a tree
    preservation policy or ordinance?


    f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted
    Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community
    Conservation Plan, or other approved local,
    regional, or state habitat conservation plan?


a through f. The Innovation Village is partially developed with University facilities and is surrounded by urban
development within the City of Pomona. No habitat or natural community conservation plan applies to the
campus, including the project site. No sensitive biological resource is located at or near the project site. No
riparian habitat or other sensitive natural community, wetland, or wildlife movement corridor is known to exist on
the University’s urban campus, including the project site. Therefore, no impact will result.

V. CULTURAL RESOURCES -- Would the
project:

    a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the
    significance of a historical resource as defined
    in §15064.5?

    b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the
    significance of an archaeological resource
    pursuant to §15064.5?

    c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
    paleontological resource or site or unique
    geologic feature?

    d) Disturb any human remains, including those
    interred outside of formal cemeteries?




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                       INITIAL STUDY
                                                          13                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                        WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                       Potentially   Significant New     Less than
                                                         New or        or Increased      Significant
                                                       Increased       Impact with         New or        No New or
                                                       Significant      Mitigation       Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                  Impact       Incorporated         Impact         Impact

a through d. The site is currently vacant and does not contain any structures, and therefore, no impact on a
historic resource will result. No known paleontological or archaeological resources are located within or near the
project site. The potential for uncovering such significant resources on the site is considered remote, given that no
such resources have been discovered during prior development within the Innovation Village and past use of the
site for academic research and instruction programs in agriculture. In an unlikely event that any unknown
paleontological or archaeological resources, or human remains, are accidently discovered, compliance with the
existing regulations, including CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (which include stopping work when such
remains are accidentally discovered, bringing in a certified archaeologist/paleontologist to determine historic
significance, preserve and/or document the resources, and following steps of a prescribed process for treatment of
accidently discovered human remains) will ensure that potential effect, if any, would be reduced to a less than
significant level.

VI. GEOLOGY AND SOILS -- Would the
project:

    a) Expose people or structures to potential
    substantial adverse effects, including the risk
    of loss, injury, or death involving:

          i) Rupture of a known earthquake fault,
          as delineated on the most recent
          Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning
          Map issued by the State Geologist for
          the area or based on other substantial
          evidence of a known fault? Refer to
          Division of Mines and Geology Special
          Publication 42.

          ii) Strong seismic ground shaking?

          iii) Seismic-related ground failure,
          including liquefaction?

          iv) Landslides?

    b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the
    loss of topsoil?

    c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that
    is unstable, or that would become unstable
    as a result of the project, and potentially
    result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral
    spreading, subsidence, liquefaction or
    collapse?

CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                         INITIAL STUDY
                                                         14                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                          WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                         Less than
                                                       Potentially    Significant New     Less than
                                                         New or         or Increased      Significant
                                                       Increased        Impact with         New or        No New or
                                                       Significant       Mitigation       Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                  Impact        Incorporated         Impact         Impact

    d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined
    in Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building
    Code (1994), creating substantial risks to life
    or property?

    e) Have soils incapable of adequately
    supporting the use of septic tanks or
    alternative waste water disposal systems
    where sewers are not available for the
    disposal of waste water?

a through d. The campus, including Innovation Village, is located in the seismically active Southern California
region and therefore all design and construction of new office/research facility will be in compliance with the
California State University seismic safety rules and regulations, which are more stringent than those of the
California Building Standards Code. The planned office/research facility will be designed and use engineering
techniques specific to the site’s soil conditions. The site is located on relatively flat terrain away from hillsides;
therefore it is not at risk for landslides. Impact will be less than significant.

e. The project will be served by sewer systems and no septic tanks or alternative wastewater disposal systems are
needed. No impact will result.

VII. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS --
Would the project:

    a) Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either
    directly or indirectly, that may have a
    significant impact on the environment?

    b) Conflict with applicable plan, policy or
    regulation adopted for the purpose of
    reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases?




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                          15                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                           WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                       Potentially   Significant New     Less than
                                                         New or        or Increased      Significant
                                                       Increased       Impact with         New or        No New or
                                                       Significant      Mitigation       Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                  Impact       Incorporated         Impact         Impact

a. The research /office facility does not affect student enrollment on campus and, by itself will generate relatively
small volume of vehicular trips that produce exhaust emissions, including GHG, in a long-term. GHG emissions
from construction, amortized over the life of the project (30 years) amount to approximately 294 pounds per year.
The greenhouse gases produced by human activities come primarily from deforestation and combustion of fossil -
i.e. carbon-based fuels – such as coal, oil, and natural gas. As both the operational and short-term construction-
related emissions will be below the SCAQMD threshold amounts for criteria pollutants, including ozone
precursors, impact will be less than significant.

b. The office/research facility within Innovation Village will not conflict nor obstruct the implementation of the
South Coast Air Quality Management Plan which aims at reducing overall emissions, including greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions. The effects of development of Innovation Village on the Regional Air Quality Management
Plan were analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR. The Final EIR determined that implementation of the
Campus Master Plan will not affect regional growth projections on which the air quality plan is based.
Development of the office/research facility is consistent with the objectives and land use designations of the
Master Plan for this portion of the campus. Therefore, no new adverse impact will result from the proposed
project.

VIII. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS -- Would the project:

    a) Create a significant hazard to the public
    or the environment through the routine
    transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
    materials?

    b) Create a significant hazard to the public
    or the environment through reasonably
    foreseeable upset and accident conditions
    involving the release of hazardous materials
    into the environment?

    c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle
    hazardous or acutely hazardous materials,
    substances, or waste within one-quarter mile
    of an existing or proposed school?

    d) Be located on a site which is included on
    a list of hazardous materials sites compiled
    pursuant to Government Code Section
    65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a
    significant hazard to the public or the
    environment?



CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                         INITIAL STUDY
                                                         16                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                          WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                      Potentially    Significant New     Less than
                                                        New or         or Increased      Significant
                                                      Increased        Impact with         New or       No New or
                                                      Significant       Mitigation       Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact        Incorporated         Impact        Impact

    e) For a project located within an airport
    land use plan or, where such a plan has not
    been adopted, within two miles of a public
    airport or public use airport, would the
    project result in a safety hazard for people
    residing or working in the project area?

    f) For a project within the vicinity of a
    private airstrip, would the project result in a
    safety hazard for people residing or working
    in the project area?

    g) Impair implementation of or physically
    interfere with an adopted emergency
    response plan or emergency evacuation
    plan?

    h) Expose people or structures to a
    significant risk of loss, injury or death
    involving wildland fires, including where
    wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas or
    where residences are intermixed with
    wildlands?

a through c. The project is an office facility that does not involve the transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
materials. On-site use and storage of hazardous materials will be limited to small amounts of everyday household
cleaners, common chemicals used for landscaping and maintenance, and common chemicals and other substances
that may be used for some limited research within the office environment. The limited use of such materials is
subject to California State University guidelines. No new adverse impact will result.

d through f. The campus is not included on the Department of Toxic Substances Control Hazardous Waste and
Substance List (Cortese List) or any other list of hazardous materials sites, and is not located within two miles of
a public use airport or private airport. No impact will result.

g. The office/research facility will include the provision of all necessary emergency access in compliance with
existing regulations. Therefore, the project will not impair implementation nor physically interfere with any
adopted emergency response or evacuation plans. No adverse impact will result.

h. The Cal Poly Pomona campus is not located in a high wildland fire hazard area. No impact will result.


IX. HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY
-- Would the project:


CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         17                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                      Less than
                                                     Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                       New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                     Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                     Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                                Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact

    a) Violate any water quality standards or
    waste discharge requirements?

    b) Substantially deplete groundwater
    supplies or interfere substantially with
    groundwater recharge such that there would
    be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a
    lowering of the local groundwater table level
    (e.g., the production rate of pre-existing
    nearby wells would drop to a level which
    would not support existing land uses or
    planned uses for which permits have been
    granted)?

    c) Substantially alter the existing drainage
    pattern of the site or area, including through
    the alteration of the course of a stream or
    river, in a manner which would result in
    substantial erosion or siltation on- or off-
    site?

    d) Substantially alter the existing drainage
    pattern of the site or area, including through
    the alteration of the course of a stream or
    river, or substantially increase the rate or
    amount of surface runoff in a manner which
    would result in flooding on- or off-site?

    e) Create or contribute runoff water which
    would exceed the capacity of existing or
    planned stormwater drainage systems or
    provide substantial additional sources of
    polluted runoff?

    f) Otherwise substantially degrade water
    quality?

    g) Place housing within a 100-year flood
    hazard area as mapped on a federal Flood
    Hazard Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate
    Map or other flood hazard delineation map?

    h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area
    structures which would impede or redirect
    flood flows?
CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                    INITIAL STUDY
                                                       18                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                     WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                       Less than
                                                      Potentially   Significant New     Less than
                                                        New or        or Increased      Significant
                                                      Increased       Impact with         New or       No New or
                                                      Significant      Mitigation       Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact       Incorporated         Impact        Impact

    i) Expose people or structures to a
    significant risk of loss, injury or death
    involving flooding, including flooding as a
    result of the failure of a levee or dam?

    j) Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or
    mudflow?

a. The project is an office/research facility constructed on a 7-acre undeveloped site within the 65-acre
Innovation Village. The entire Innovation Village, including the project site, is served bioswale retention basin
that captures runoff and provides necessary compliance with Clean Water Act functions to improve the quality of
stormwater runoff through bio-filtration (see discussion under items c through f). As a result, impact will be less
than significant.

In compliance with the existing regulations, the following measures will be implemented to ensure that short-term
construction related runoff will not significantly affect water quality.

     1.   The project will institute a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to reduce the entry of
          construction debris, sediment, and other material from the construction site into local waterways. The
          SWPPP may include the following:

                 Schedule excavation and grading work for dry weather
                 Use as little water as possible for dust control
                 Never hose down dirty pavement or impermeable surfaces where fluids have spilled
                 Avoid excavation and grading activities during wet weather
                 Construct diversion dikes to channel runoff around the site and line channels with grass or
                  roughened pavement to reduce the velocity of runoff
                 Install sediment filters and/or debris traps at or near entrances to the storm drain system
                 Cover stockpiles and excavated soil with tarps or plastic sheeting
                 Plant permanent vegetation as soon as possible

Implementation of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) will ensure a less than significant impact
during construction of the project.

b. Based on the County of Los Angeles Sanitation Districts factors, the daily water use associated with the
office/research facility will be approximately 24,600 gallons per day, based on 200 gallons/1,000 square feet.
The project is consistent with the University Campus Master Plan. As identified in the Campus Master Plan EIR,
the implementation of the Master Plan, including development of the entire Innovation Village, will not
substantially deplete groundwater supplies.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                        19                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                          Less than
                                                       Potentially     Significant New     Less than
                                                         New or          or Increased      Significant
                                                       Increased         Impact with         New or        No New or
                                                       Significant        Mitigation       Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                  Impact         Incorporated         Impact         Impact
c through f. The project development includes inlets to collect runoff at several locations around the site. These
inlets will convey low flow and first flush runoff to gravel beds that will be located within landscaped areas on
the project site. These pervious surface landscape areas will stretch along the site’s boundaries and are designed
as a bio-filtration swale that will provide water quality treatment by percolation into the ground. The bioswale
will be planted with riparian plantings, and deciduous and evergreen tree mix. The captured runoff will be
filtered through both the gravel beds/soil and the plant materials. In addition, parking areas will also include rock
islands to allow additional stormwater percolation into the soils. Larger storm flows will be collected by the inlets
and conveyed to a reinforced concrete pipe storm drain system. The storm drain system will outlet into the San
Jose Creek Channel that runs along the western boundary of the Innovation Village. The swale will provide
pervious surfaces and bio-filtration, and thus, in addition to retarding peak flows, it will provide necessary Clean
Water Act functions to improve quality of stormwater runoff.

The entire Innovation Village site is a tributary of San Jose Creek, which eventually flows into the San Gabriel
River. An existing drainage inlet to the channel, located at the hydraulically low point directly north of the
existing Technology Center, conveys flows to the channel. The fully developed channel has adequate capacity to
accommodate storm flows from the ultimate development of the entire Innovation Village, including the proposed
office/research project. Therefore, impact on drainage flows and water quality will be less than significant.

g though i. The National Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) prepared by FEMA show no 100-year flood
hazard area within the Cal Poly Pomona campus, including the project site. Thus, the project will not place
structures or housing within a flood zone area. No levee or dam is located in close proximity to the campus. No
adverse impact will result.

j. The campus is located inland and is not subject to tsunamis, nor is it subject to a seiche as it is not located near
a large body of water. The project site is not subject to mudflows as it is relatively flat and not located adjacent
to hillsides. No impact will result.

X. LAND USE AND PLANNING -- Would the
project:

    a) Physically divide an established
    community?

    b) Conflict with any applicable land use
    plan, policy, or regulation of an agency with
    jurisdiction over the project (including, but
    not limited to the general plan, specific plan,
    local coastal program, or zoning ordinance)
    adopted for the purpose of avoiding or
    mitigating an environmental effect?

    c) Conflict with any applicable habitat
    conservation plan or natural community
    conservation plan?


CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                           INITIAL STUDY
                                                          20                                 OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                            WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                      Less than
                                                     Potentially   Significant New    Less than
                                                       New or        or Increased     Significant
                                                     Increased       Impact with        New or        No New or
                                                     Significant      Mitigation      Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                Impact       Incorporated        Impact         Impact

a and b. The project site is located within the boundaries of the Cal Poly Pomona campus and will not physically
divide an established community. The project site is designated as a “technology research facility” in the Campus
Master Plan and the proposed office/research facility is consistent with this land use designation. No adverse
impact will result.

c. The Cal Poly Pomona campus, including the project site, is not located within a habitat or natural community
conservation plan. The project site is located within an urbanized area and away from sensitive habitat. No
impact will result.

XI. MINERAL RESOURCES -- Would the
project:

    a) Result in the loss of availability of a
    known mineral resource that would be of
    value to the region and the residents of the
    state?

    b) Result in the loss of availability of a
    locally-important mineral resource recovery
    site delineated on a local general plan,
    specific plan or other land use plan?

a and b. No mineral resources are known to exist on the Cal Poly Pomona campus. No impact will result.

XII. NOISE -- Would the project result in:

    a) Exposure of persons to or generation of
    noise levels in excess of standards
    established in the local general plan or noise
    ordinance, or applicable standards of other
    agencies?

    b) Exposure of persons to or generation of
    excessive groundborne vibration or
    groundborne noise levels?

    c) A substantial permanent increase in
    ambient noise levels in the project vicinity
    above levels existing without the project?

    d) A substantial temporary or periodic
    increase in ambient noise levels in the
    project vicinity above levels existing without
    the project?
CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                      INITIAL STUDY
                                                       21                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                       WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                      Potentially    Significant New     Less than
                                                        New or         or Increased      Significant
                                                      Increased        Impact with         New or       No New or
                                                      Significant       Mitigation       Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact        Incorporated         Impact        Impact

    e) For a project located within an airport
    land use plan or, where such a plan has not
    been adopted, within two miles of a public
    airport or public use airport, would the
    project expose people residing or working in
    the project area to excessive noise levels?

    f) For a project within the vicinity of a
    private airstrip, would the project expose
    people residing or working in the project
    area to excessive noise levels?

a through d. The project is a single office/technology research building along Kellogg Drive consistent with the
campus land use plan for the site. Thus, the project will not generate a significant increase in noise beyond that
analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR. The site is not adjacent to any residential or other uses considered to
be sensitive receptors. The surrounding land uses consist of the Red Cross Facility across Kellogg Drive to the
northeast, and two office/research facilities and the CTTI facility across Innovation Way to the west and
southwest. All of these facilities are uses that are not noise sensitive, similar to the proposed project. No new or
increased long-term noise impact beyond that anticipated in the Campus Master Plan EIR will result.

However, the following measures will be implemented to ensure that short-term construction related noise will
not significantly affect the existing nearby facilities within Innovation Village.

Mitigation Measures

     1.   Construction hours will be restricted per City of Pomona regulations, which limit the hours of
          construction activity between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm Monday through Friday, and from 8:00 am and 6:00
          pm on Saturdays. No construction activity will take place on Sunday or federal holidays.
     2.   Muffled construction equipment will be used whenever possible.
     3.   A telephone number and name of a contact person for registering comments or complaints will be
          posted in a clearly visible manner along the perimeter of the construction site.
     4.   Construction staging areas will be located as far as possible from nearby uses.

Level of Impact After Mitigation

Implementation of the above measures will reduce the short-term construction impact to a less than significant
level.

e and f. The campus, including the project site, is not located within an airport land use plan, within two miles of
an airport or public use airport, or within the vicinity of a private airstrip. No impact will result.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         22                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                       Less than
                                                     Potentially    Significant New    Less than
                                                       New or         or Increased     Significant
                                                     Increased        Impact with        New or       No New or
                                                     Significant       Mitigation      Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                Impact        Incorporated        Impact        Impact

XIII. POPULATION AND HOUSING --
Would the project:

    a) Induce substantial population growth in
    an area, either directly (for example, by
    proposing new homes and businesses) or
    indirectly (for example, through extension of
    roads or other infrastructure)?

    b) Displace substantial numbers of existing
    housing, necessitating the construction of
    replacement housing elsewhere?

    c) Displace substantial numbers of people,
    necessitating the construction of replacement
    housing elsewhere?

a. The project is a public/private partnership that will provide work, study, and research opportunities for Cal
Poly Pomona students and faculty. The Campus Master Plan EIR anticipated that development of Innovation
Village would result in the creation of approximately 900 net new jobs. The EIR concluded that the provision of
these employment opportunities will not induce substantial population growth. The proposed facility is
anticipated to accommodate up to 490 employees - including new employees and employees that may relocate to
this office from other nearby areas, and will provide opportunities for faculty, staff, and students from Cal Poly
Pomona. The new jobs created by the project are anticipated to provide employment opportunities to residents of
Pomona and surrounding communities and no migration of people from other regions will occur. As this
employment is within the job creation envelope anticipated in the Campus Master Plan EIR, no new or increased
impact will result.

b and c. The project does not involve the removal of housing or displacement of people. No impact will result.

XIV. PUBLIC SERVICES

    a) Would the project result in substantial
    adverse physical impacts associated with the
    provision of new or physically altered
    governmental facilities, need for new or
    physically altered governmental facilities,
    the construction of which could cause
    significant environmental impacts, in order
    to maintain acceptable service ratios,
    response times or other performance
    objectives for any of the public services:

          Fire protection?

CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                       INITIAL STUDY
                                                        23                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                        WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                           Less than
                                                        Potentially     Significant New      Less than
                                                          New or          or Increased       Significant
                                                        Increased         Impact with          New or        No New or
                                                        Significant        Mitigation        Increased       Increased
Issues:                                                   Impact         Incorporated          Impact         Impact

          Police protection?

          Schools?

          Parks?

          Other public facilities?

 a. The Los Angeles County Fire Department provides fire protection services to the campus and will continue to
provide services to the project site. Fire protection and paramedic service will be provided by Fire Station 187,
located at 3325 Temple Avenue in Pomona. The station is located less than a mile from the project site, with an
estimated response time of 2 minutes. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department will continue to provide
police protection services. All development within Innovation Village, including the proposed office/research
facility, will incorporate safety and security features such as fire sprinklers and alarm systems, emergency vehicle
access, security and safety lighting, internal alarm systems, and other features to deter crime and ensure fire
safety. The Campus Master Plan EIR determined that development of Innovation Village will not result in the
need to construct additional police or fire protection facilities or alter existing facilities, the construction of which
could cause a significant adverse effect on the environment. The project will not generate substantial population
or housing growth; nor will it result in demand for school facilities or parks. No additional impacts on other
public facilities including roadways, libraries, or recreational facilities beyond those anticipated in the Campus
Mater Plan will occur as a result of this project. No new or increased impact will result.

XV. RECREATION

    a) Would the project increase the use of
    existing neighborhood and regional parks or
    other recreational facilities such that
    substantial physical deterioration of the
    facility would occur or be accelerated?

    b) Does the project include recreational
    facilities or require the construction or
    expansion of recreational facilities which
    might have an adverse physical effect on the
    environment?

a and b. As identified in the Campus Master Plan EIR, development pursuant to the Master Plan, including
planned development within the Innovation Village, will not induce substantial new population growth that would
require the construction of new parks or recreational facilities that might have an adverse physical effect on the
environment. No new or increased impact will result.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                            INITIAL STUDY
                                                           24                                 OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                             WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                      Less than
                                                     Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                       New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                     Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                     Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                                Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact

XVI. TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC --
Would the project:

    a) Conflict with an applicable plan,
    ordinance or policy establishing measures of
    effectiveness for the performance of the
    circulation system, taking into account all
    modes of transportation including mass
    transit and non-motorized travel and relevant
    components of the circulation system,
    including but not limited to intersections,
    streets, highways and freeways, pedestrian
    and bicycle paths, and mass transit?

    b) Conflict with applicable congestion
    management program, including but not
    limited to level of service standards and
    travel demand measures, or other standards
    established by the county congestion
    management agency for designated roads or
    highways?

    c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns,
    including either an increase in traffic levels
    or a change in location which results in
    substantial safety risks?

    d) Substantially increase hazards due to a
    design feature (e.g., sharp curves or
    dangerous intersections) or incompatible
    uses (e.g., farm equipment)?

    e) Result in inadequate emergency access?

    f) Conflict with adopted policies plans, or
    programs regarding public transit, bicycle,
    or pedestrian facilities, or otherwise
    decrease the safety of such facilities?

a and b. A traffic study was prepared for the project by Gibson Transportation Consulting in June, 2014. The
traffic study is included in Appendix A. Findings of the study are summarized herein.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                    INITIAL STUDY
                                                       25                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                     WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                      Potentially    Significant New     Less than
                                                        New or         or Increased      Significant
                                                      Increased        Impact with         New or       No New or
                                                      Significant       Mitigation       Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact        Incorporated         Impact        Impact

Existing Roadway Network

Temple Avenue is a five lane roadway that runs in the east-west direction and is located directly south of the
project site. It provides both local and regional access to the Project Site. There is generally no parking allowed
on either side of the street within the study area. The posted speed limit is 45 to 55 mph.

Kellogg Drive is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south direction before curving to the east-west
direction and is located north of the project site. It connects I-10 to South Campus Drive, providing local and
regional access to the site. There is generally no parking allowed on either side of the street and the posted speed
limit is 35 mph.

South Campus Drive is a two lane roadway that runs in the north-south direction and is located east of the project
site. It connects East Campus Drive to Temple Avenue and provides local access to the site. There is generally
no parking allowed on either side of the street and the posted speed limit is 45 mph.

Valley Boulevard is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south direction and is located east of the project
site. It provides both local and regional access to the Project Site through Temple Avenue. There is generally
parking allowed on both sides of the street and the posted speed limit is 45 mph.

Grand Avenue is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south direction and is located west of the project site
near Mt. San Antonio College. It provides both local and regional access to the site through Temple Avenue.
There is generally no parking allowed on either side of the street and the posted speed limit is 40 mph.

Existing Conditions at Study Intersections

The existing Level of Service (LOS) at study intersections is summarized in Table 4. As shown, seven of the
eight study intersections currently operate at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours
under Existing Conditions. The intersection of South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue is one study intersection
that is currently operating at LOS E during both the morning and evening peak hours.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         26                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                    Table 4
                                      Existing Conditions (Year 2014)
                              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service (LOS)


                                                                                     Existing
                            Intersection                      Peak Hour
                                                                           Delay
                                                                                                LOS
                                                                           (sec)
          Grand Avenue & Temple                                   A.M.         43.5              D
          Avenue                                                  P.M.         32.2              C
          University Drive & Temple Avenue                        A.M.         53.4              D
                                                                  P.M.         31.8              C
          South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue                      A.M.         55.7              E
                                                                  P.M.         58.4              E
          South Campus Drive & Kellogg Drive                      A.M.         36.2              D
                                                                  P.M.         22.9              C
          Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive                        A.M.         19.5              B
                                                                  P.M.         11.4              B
          Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue                        A.M.         43.0              D
                                                                  P.M.         34.2              C
          SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp & Temple                      A.M.         16.5              B
          Avenue                                                  P.M.         32.7              C
          SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp & Temple                      A.M.         9.1               A
          Avenue                                                  P.M.         7.6               A
         Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                     INITIAL STUDY
                                                       27                              OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                      WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Existing Plus Project Conditions at Study Intersections

As show in Table 5, with addition of the project seven of the eight study intersections are projected to operate at
LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours. The intersection of South Campus Drive &
Temple Avenue is anticipated to continue to operate at LOS E during both the morning and evening peak hour.




                                                    Table 5
                               Existing Plus Project LOS at Study Intersections
                                                Peak          Delay                     Change in
 Intersection                                   Hour          (sec)         LOS         Delay (sec)      Impact
                                                A.M.            44            D              0.5            No
 Grand Avenue & Temple Avenue
                                                P.M.           32.5           C              0.3            No
                                                A.M.           53.7           D              0.3            No
 University Drive & Temple Avenue
                                                P.M.           31.9           C              0.1            No
                                                A.M.           56.4           E              0.7           YES
 South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
                                                P.M.           58.9           E              0.5           YES
                                                A.M.           36.6           D              0.4           No
 South Campus Drive & Kellogg Drive
                                                P.M.            23            C              0.1            No
                                                A.M.           20.2           C              0.7            No
 Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive
                                                P.M.           11.5           B              0.1            No
                                                A.M.           46.1           D              3.1            No
 Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue
                                                P.M.            38            D              3.8            No
 SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp                      A.M.           16.9           B              0.4            No
 & Temple Avenue                                P.M.           33.2           C              0.5            No
 SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp                      A.M.           9.3            A              0.2            No
 & Temple Avenue                                P.M.           7.7            A              0.1            No
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)

Future Without Project Conditions at Study Intersections

The projected future Year 2016 LOS at study intersections is summarized in Table 6. As shown, five of the eight
study intersections operate at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours. The following
three study intersections are projected to operate at LOS E or F during either the morning or evening peak hour:

        University Drive & Temple Avenue
        South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
        Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                         INITIAL STUDY
                                                         28                                OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                          WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                      Table 6
                                Future Conditions Without Project (Year 2016)
                                    Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service


                                                                                Future without Project
                               Intersection                      Peak Hour
                                                                                  Delay
                                                                                                 LOS
                                                                                  (sec)
            Grand Avenue & Temple Avenue                             A.M.          52.9            D
                                                                     P.M.          36.4            D
            University Drive & Temple Avenue                         A.M.          72.2            E
                                                                     P.M.         114.8             F
            South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue                       A.M.         121.2             F
                                                                     P.M.          85.2            F
            South Campus Drive & Kellogg Drive                       A.M.          36.1            D
                                                                     P.M.          23.4            C
            Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive                         A.M.          23.5            C
                                                                     P.M.          11.7            B
            Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue                         A.M.          73.3            E
                                                                     P.M.          52.1            D
            SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp & Temple Avenue                A.M.          18.6            B
                                                                     P.M.          41.1            D
            SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp & Temple Avenue                A.M.           11.2           B
                                                                     P.M.           8.4            A
          Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)

Project Trip Generation

The office/research facility is estimated to generate 998 daily trips, including 150 trips during the morning peak
hour (125 inbound trips and 25 outbound trips) and 132 trips during the evening peak hour (20 inbound trips and
112 outbound trips).

Impact Criteria

The City of Pomona per its Traffic Impact Study Guidelines requires that: “Any study intersection that is
operating at a LOS E or F for any study scenario without project traffic shall mitigate any impacts so as to bring
the intersection back to the overall level of delay established prior to the project traffic being added”.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                         29                                 OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                           WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Future With Project (Year 2016) Conditions at Study Intersections

The Future Plus Project (Year 2016) intersection operating conditions for typical weekday morning and evening
peak hours are summarized in Table 7. As shown, five of the eight study intersections are projected to operate at
LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours. The addition of project traffic will result in a
significant impact at two study intersections:

        South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
        Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue




                                                  Table 7
                      Future Conditions With Project (Year 2016) at Study Intersections
                                        Peak Hour Levels of Service


                                               Peak           Future Plus Project       Change in
 Intersection
                                               Hour           Delay (sec)    LOS         Delay            Impact
 Grand Avenue &                                A.M.              53.5         D            0.6                NO
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.              37.0         D            0.6                NO
 University Drive &                            A.M.              72.2          E            0.0                NO
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.             114.8          F            0.0                NO
 South Campus Drive &                          A.M.             122.0          F            0.8               YES
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.              85.9          F            0.7               YES
 South Campus Drive &                          A.M.              36.9          D            0.8                NO
 Kellogg Drive                                 P.M.              24.0          C            0.6                NO
 Valley Boulevard &                            A.M.              24.2          C            0.7                NO
 Kellogg Drive                                 P.M.              11.8          B            0.1                NO
 Valley Boulevard &                            A.M.              79.4          E            6.1               YES
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.              55.7          E            3.6               YES
 SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp &                   A.M.              19.0          B            0.4                NO
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.              43.5          D            2.4                NO
 SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp &                   A.M.              11.5          B            0.3                NO
 Temple Avenue                                 P.M.               8.4          A            0.0                NO




 CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                       INITIAL STUDY
                                                         30                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Freeway Segments

The following freeway mainline segments were analyzed in the traffic study for current and future conditions with
and without the project:

       I-10 West of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
       I-10 East of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
       SR 57 North of Temple Avenue
       SR 57 South of Temple Avenue

The results of the analyses for future conditions with and without the project are summarized in Table 8. As shown,
the maximum change in density caused by the project is 0.2 passenger car/miles/lane and there is no change in the
LOS at any of the study freeway segments. Therefore, impact is considered to be less than significant.

                                                  Table 8
                           Future Conditions With and Without Project (Year 2016)
                            Freeway Mainline Segment Peak Hour Levels of Service

                                                                    Future
                                          Peak                      Without         Future With       Change
 Freeway Segment                                    Direction       Project           Project
                                          Hour                                                          in
                                                                Density    LOS     Density   LOS      Density
                                                       EB        34.1       D       34.2      D         0.1
                                           AM
                                                       WB         37.7        E      37.8      E         0.1
 I-10 East of Via Verde
                                                       EB         41.1        E      41.2      E         0.1
                                           PM
                                                       WB         35.9        E      36.1      E         0.2
                                                       EB         41.4        E      41.4      E         0.0
                                           AM
                                                       WB         45.9        F      46.0      F         0.1
 I-10 West of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
                                                       EB         50.0        F      50.1      F         0.1
                                           PM
                                                       WB         43.7        E      43.7      E         0.0
                                                       NB         28.9        D      29.0      D         0.1
                                           AM
                                                       SB         30.8        D      30.9      D         0.1
 SR 57 North of Temple Avenue
                                                       NB         30.2        D      30.3      D         0.1
                                           PM
                                                       SB         33.3        D      33.3      D         0.0
                                                       NB         27.1        D      27.1      D         0.0
                                           AM
                                                       SB         28.8        D      28.9      D         0.1
 SR 57 South of Temple Avenue
                                                       NB         28.2        D      28.3      D         0.1
                                           PM
                                                       SB         31.2        D      31.2      D         0.0




 CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                      INITIAL STUDY
                                                         31                              OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                        WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Congestion Management Program (CMP)

Arterial Intersections: The Congestion Management Program (CMP) requires preparation of a traffic analysis
for CMP arterial intersections where a project would add 50 or more trips during peak hours. The only CMP
arterial monitoring station closest the project site is SR 71 and Mission Boulevard. Since the project is
anticipated to add fewer than 50 trips during the peak hour at this intersection, the project’s CMP impact is
considered less than significant.

Freeway Mainline Segments: The CMP also requires an analysis of CMP mainline freeway segments where a
project would add 150 or more trips in either direction during the peak hours. As the project is projected to add
fewer than 150 peak hour trips distributed to the freeways in the area, the project’s CMP impact is considered
less than significant.

Site Access and Circulation
Access to the project will be provided from Innovation Way and Kellogg Drive. The existing median on Kellogg
Drive will be modified to provide both right and left turn access to the facility. With this modification both the
access and internal circulation within the project site will be adequate and no adverse impact will result.

Mitigation Measures
The project will include addressing the following mitigation measures.
1. South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue: Convert the existing southbound shared through/left-turn lane into a
shared through/left-turn/right-turn lane.

This can be implemented by restriping the center shared through/left-turn lane for a shared through/left-turn/right-
turn operation. After the mitigation, the southbound approach would provide one left-turn lane, one shared
through/left-turn/right-turn lane, and one right-turn lane. This improvement can be accommodated within the
existing right-of-way.

2. Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue: Convert one of the existing southbound through lanes into a shared
through/right-turn lane.

This can be implemented by restriping the through lane for a shared through/right-turn operation. After the
mitigation, the southbound approach would provide one left-turn lane, one through lane, one shared
through/right-turn lane, and one right-turn lane. This improvement can be accommodated within the existing
right-of-way.

To reduce a short-term potential impact associated with construction of the office/research facility, the following
mitigation measure will be implemented:

3. Construction-related truck traffic will be scheduled to avoid peak travel time on the I-10 freeway and State
Route 57, as feasible.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         32                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
 Level of Impact After Mitigation
 The implementation of the identified mitigation measures will not only eliminate the project impact at the two
 affected study intersections, but will also reduce delay at these intersections when compared to the Future
 Without Project conditions, as illustrated in Table 9.

 No significant new or increased impact beyond that already anticipated in the Campus Master Plan EIR will
 result.




                                                   Table 9
                               Future Plus Project With and Without Mitigation
                             Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service (Year 2016)

                                        Future Plus
                                                              Future Plus Project
                                 Peak Project Without          With Mitigation
Intersection                            Mitigation                                   Change in
                                 Hour                                                               Impact
                                                                                     Delay (sec)
                                          Delay                Delay
                                                    LOS                     LOS
                                          (sec)                (sec)
South Campus Drive & Temple
                                  A.M.    122.0      F         106.5         F          -15.5         NO
Avenue
                                  P.M.     85.9      F          81.6         F           -4.3         NO
Valley Boulevard & Temple         A.M.     79.4      E          68.2         E          -11.2         NO
Avenue                            P.M.     55.7      E          48.1         D           -7.6         NO


 c through f. The provision of the office/research facility within Innovation Village will not affect air traffic
 patterns. The facility will include the provision of all required emergency access in compliance with existing
 regulations. No design features or uses that could result in increased hazards are part of the project. No impact
 will result.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                       INITIAL STUDY
                                                         33                              OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                        WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                     Less than
                                                    Potentially   Significant New   Less than
                                                      New or        or Increased    Significant
                                                    Increased       Impact with       New or      No New or
                                                    Significant      Mitigation     Increased     Increased
Issues:                                               Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact

XVII. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS
-- Would the project:

    a) Exceed wastewater treatment
    requirements of the applicable Regional
    Water Quality Control Board?

    b) Require or result in the construction of
    new water or wastewater treatment facilities
    or expansion of existing facilities, the
    construction of which could cause
    significant environmental effects?

    c) Require or result in the construction of
    new storm water drainage facilities or
    expansion of existing facilities, the
    construction of which could cause
    significant environmental effects?

    d) Have sufficient water supplies available
    to serve the project from existing
    entitlements and resources, or are new or
    expanded entitlements needed?

    e) Result in a determination by the
    wastewater treatment provider which serves
    or may serve the project that it has adequate
    capacity to serve the project’s projected
    demand in addition to the provider’s existing
    commitments?

    f) Be served by a landfill with sufficient
    permitted capacity to accommodate the
    project’s solid waste disposal needs?

    g) Comply with federal, State, and local
    statutes and regulations related to solid
    waste?




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                   INITIAL STUDY
                                                      34                             OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                    WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
a through e. Water will be provided via the University campus water system. The University’s water supplies,
which include water from two University wells on campus and the MWD supplies, are considered adequate to
support the planned development pursuant to the Master Plan, including development within Innovation Village.
The office/research facility will use approximately 37,800 gallons per day (gpd) using a factor of 315 gpd/1,000
square feet based on the County Sanitation Districts factors. State-mandated water conservation measures
including ultra low-flow toilets, urinals, taps, water conservation plumbing, and other required conservation
measures will be utilized to reduce the amount of water used and the resultant wastewater flows. When compared
with the 150,000 gpd used by 500 single family housing units, the project will use substantially less water. Since
the Campus Master Plan will not affect population growth in the area, the Master Plan is fully consistent with and
accommodated within the projection used as a basis for estimating future water demands, and the project is
consistent with the Master Plan, no significant new or increased impact beyond that already anticipated and
evaluated in the Campus Master Plan EIR is anticipated.

Based on a factor of 95% of water becoming wastewater, the project is expected to generate approximately
36,000 gallons of wastewater per day. The project site is located within the Sanitation District No. 21 boundary.
The project flows will discharge for conveyance to the District’s Outfall Trunk Sewer located in a right-of-way
along the west side of San Jose Creek, south of State Street. This 27-inch sewer has a design capacity of 19.4
million gallons per day (mgd). The wastewater will be treated at the San Jose Creek Water Reclamation Plant,
which has a design capacity of 100 mgd. All sludge and any wastewater that exceeds the capacity of the San Jose
Creek Water Reclamation Plant is diverted and treated at the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant in the City of
Carson.

The existing sewer facilities for the Innovation Village consist primarily of an 18-inch PVC line that runs parallel
to San Jose Creek Wash, southeast of the channel. At the south side of the University Village, the 18-inch PVC
line joins the existing 15-inch sanitary sewer that further connects to the County Sanitation District’s 27-inch
trunk sewer downstream. The existing 18-inch PVC line is designed to have sufficient capacity to accept flows
from the entire Innovation Village development.

All legally required capital facilities fees will be paid pursuant to and in compliance with the California
Government Code Section 54999. Payment of the required capital facilities fees will mitigate any potential
impact on the sewer system to a less than significant level.

f and g. The impact from solid waste disposal was identified as significant and unavoidable in the Campus
Master Plan EIR. As with other development on campus, including that within Innovation Village, the project
will comply with existing State and Federal statutes regarding solid waste reduction. Since landfill space is a
limited resource, mitigation measures are made a part of the project to reduce the project’s incremental
contribution to the campus waste stream. Operations of the office/research facility will comply with all requisite
regulations related to solid waste.

Mitigation Measures

     1.   Space will be provided for recycling facilities (e.g. bins).
     1.   The facility will provide adequate storage area for collection and removal of recyclable materials.
     2.   Construction debris will be recycled to the extent possible.

Level of Impact After Mitigation

Implementation of the identified mitigation measures will reduce the project’s solid waste impact. No significant
new or increased impact beyond that already anticipated in the Campus Master Plan EIR will result.



CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         35                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                                                                        Less than
                                                      Potentially    Significant New     Less than
                                                        New or         or Increased      Significant
                                                      Increased        Impact with         New or       No New or
                                                      Significant       Mitigation       Increased      Increased
Issues:                                                 Impact        Incorporated         Impact        Impact

XVIII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF
SIGNIFICANCE

    a) Does the project have the potential to
    degrade the quality of the environment,
    substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or
    wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife
    population to drop below self-sustaining
    levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
    community, reduce the number or restrict the
    range of a rare or endangered plant or
    animal or eliminate important examples of
    the major periods of California history or
    prehistory?

    b) Does the project have impacts that are
    individually limited, but cumulatively
    considerable? ("Cumulatively considerable"
    means that the incremental effects of a
    project are considerable when viewed in
    connection with the effects of past projects,
    the effects of other current projects, and the
    effects of probable future projects)?

    c) Does the project have environmental
    effects which will cause substantial adverse
    effects on human beings, either directly or
    indirectly?

a. No natural biological resources are present on the site and the project will not impact fish or wildlife habitat.
No important examples of California history or prehistory are present on the site. Therefore, no adverse impact
will result.

b. Cumulative effects of the Innovation Village development were analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR.
Implementation of mitigation measures included herein ensures that no significant new or increased impact will
occur as a result of the project.

c. The project will provide needed work, study, and research opportunities for University students, faculty, and
staff. The office/research facility is consistent with the development analyzed in the Campus Master Plan EIR.
Therefore, no new or increased impact on people will result.




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                         36                               OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                                                         WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
                            Preparers of the Initial Study
Lead Agency
The Trustees of the California State University
California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
3801 West Temple Avenue
Pomona, CA 91768

Contact Person:   Bruyn Bevans, Senior Project Manager
                  Facilities Planning and Management

Phone: (909) 979 – 5517
Fax: (909) 869-2292
Email: bbevans@csupomona.edu


Consultant to the Lead Agency

Parsons Brinckerhoff, Inc.
444 South Flower Street, Suite 800
Los Angeles, CA 90071

Phone: (213) 362-9470
Fax: (213) 362-9480

Irena Finkelstein, AICP, Project Manager
Email: finkelstein@pbworld.com




CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY, POMONA                            INITIAL STUDY
                                                  37          OFFICE/RESEARCH FACILITY
                                                             WITHIN INNOVATION VILLAGE
Appendix A
   Traffic Study
                             DRAFT

            TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
                         FOR THE
         NEW INNOVATION VILLAGE
RESEARCH/OFFICE BUILDING PROJECT

                CAL POLY POMONA
             POMONA, CALIFORNIA




                             JUNE 2014




                          PREPARED FOR

          PARSONS BRINCKERHOFF, INC.



                           PREPARED BY
                                        DRAFT

            TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
                          FOR THE
         NEW INNOVATION VILLAGE
RESEARCH/OFFICE BUILDING PROJECT

                    CAL POLY POMONA
                  POMONA, CALIFORNIA




                                         June 2014




                                      Prepared for:

                   PARSONS BRINCKERHOFF, INC.


                                       Prepared by:

      GIBSON TRANSPORTATION CONSULTING, INC.
                     523 W. 6th Street, Suite 1234
                     Los Angeles, California 90014
                                   (213) 683-0088


                                        Ref: J1288
                                                                                                  Table of Contents

1.    Introduction......................................................................................................................    1
             Project Location ...................................................................................................           1
             Project Description ...............................................................................................            1
             Organization of Report.........................................................................................                2

2.    Traffic Impact Analysis Methodology ..............................................................................                    4
              Study Scope and Methodology ...........................................................................                       4

3.    Existing Conditions..........................................................................................................        10
             Study Area ...........................................................................................................        10
             Existing Street System.........................................................................................               11
             Existing Transit System .......................................................................................               12
             Existing Bicycle and Pedestrian Network ............................................................                          14
             Existing Traffic Volumes and Levels of Service ..................................................                             15

4.    Future without Project Conditions ...................................................................................                22
             CEQA Guidelines Regarding Future Traffic Conditions......................................                                     22
             Future without Project Traffic Volumes ...............................................................                        23
             Intersection Operations........................................................................................               24

5.    Project Traffic .................................................................................................................. 28
             Project Traffic Volumes........................................................................................ 28

6.    Existing Plus Project Conditions ................................................................................ 34
             Existing Plus Project Intersection Operations ..................................................... 34

7.    Future Plus Project Conditions ....................................................................................... 37
             Future Plus Project (Year 2016) Intersection Operations ................................... 37

8.    Traffic Impact Analysis ....................................................................................................         40
              Existing Plus Project Conditions ..........................................................................                  40
              Future Plus Project Conditions (Year 2016)........................................................                           40
              Freeway Mainline Segment Analysis ..................................................................                         41

9.    Transportation Mitigation Program .................................................................................                  44
            Specific Intersection Improvements ....................................................................                        44
            Existing Plus Project with Mitigation Traffic Conditions ......................................                                45
            Future Plus Project with Mitigation Traffic Conditions.........................................                                46

10.   Congestion Management Program Analysis ..................................................................                            49
           CMP Significant Traffic Impact Criteria ...............................................................                         49
           CMP Freeway Analysis .......................................................................................                    49
           CMP Arterial Monitoring Station Analysis ...........................................................                            50
           Regional Transit Impact Analysis ........................................................................                       50

11.   Site Access and Circulation ............................................................................................ 52
           Proposed Site Access and Circulation ................................................................... 52

12.   Summary and Conclusions ............................................................................................. 53
                                                         Table of Contents, cont.

References


Appendix A:   Intersection Lane Configurations
Appendix B:   Traffic Counts
Appendix C:   Intersection Level of Service Worksheets
Appendix D:   Freeway Analysis
                                                                                                           List of Figures

NO.

1     Site Plan ......... ............................................................................................................... 3
2     Study Area and Analyzed Intersections ....................................................................... 17
3     Existing Transit Service ................................................................................................ 18
4     Existing Conditions (Year 2014)
              Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .......................................................... 19
5     Related Project-Only
              Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .......................................................... 25
6     Future without Project Conditions (Year 2016)
              Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .......................................................... 26
7     Trip Distribution ............................................................................................................ 31
8     Project-Only – Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes ............................................... 32
9     Existing Plus Project Conditions (Year 2014)
              Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .......................................................... 35
10    Future Plus Project Conditions (Year 2016)
              Intersection Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .......................................................... 38



                                                                                                             List of Tables

NO.

1A    Level of Service Definitions - Signalized and Unsignalized Intersections ...................                                        8
1B    Level of Service Definitions – Freeway Mainline Segments ........................................                                   9
2     Existing Transit Service................................................................................................           20
3     Existing Conditions (Year 2014)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service .......................................................                           21
4     Future without Project Conditions (Year 2016)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Serive ............................................................                       27
5     Trip Generation ................................................................................................................   33
6     Existing Plus Project Conditions (Year 2014)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service ..........................................................                        36
7     Future Plus Project Conditions (Year 2016)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service Analysis............................................                              39
8     Existing Conditions (Year 2014)
              Freeway Mainline Segment Peak Hour Level of Service Analysis ....................                                          42
9     Future Conditions (Year 2016)
              Freeway Mainline Segment Peak Hour Level of Service Analysis ....................                                          43
10    Existing Plus Project with Mitigation Conditions (Year 2014)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service ..........................................................                        47
11    Future Plus Project with Mitigation Conditions (Year 2016)
              Intersection Peak Hour Levels of Service ..........................................................                        48
                                                                                 Chapter 1
                                                                             Introduction


The traffic impact analysis described in this study has been prepared for the New Innovation
Village Research/Office Project (Project) located near the California State Polytechnic
University, Pomona (Cal Poly Pomona). The methodology and assumptions used in this
analysis were established in conjunction with Traffic Impact Study Guidelines (City of Pomona
Public Works Department, February 2012).




PROJECT LOCATION


The currently undeveloped Project Site is located on the southwest corner of the intersection of
Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive east of the Cal Poly Pomona campus in the City of Pomona
(City). The Project Site is bounded by Kellogg Drive to the north, Valley Boulevard to the east,
undeveloped land and Temple Avenue to the south, and Innovation Way to the west. In addition
to the Cal Poly Pomona facilities to the west, the area surrounding the Project Site consists of
residential development to the north and south and industrial development to the east.




PROJECT DESCRIPTION


The Project, which is expected to be constructed and operational by year 2016, includes a
three-story, 123,060 square feet (sf) research/office building and a 446-space surface parking
lot. The parking lot will surround the new building and vehicular access will be provided on
Kellogg Drive and Innovation Way. The existing median on Kellogg Drive will be modified to
allow eastbound left turns into the Project Site. Pedestrian access will be provided by sidewalks
adjacent to both driveways and would connect from the street to the building entrances. Bicycle
access would be provided via the vehicular access points on Kellogg Drive and Innovation Way.


Figure 1 illustrates the proposed Project site plan.



                                                                                                1
ORGANIZATION OF REPORT


This report is divided into 12 chapters, including this introduction. Chapter 2 describes the
methodology used for the traffic impact analysis. Chapter 3 describes the existing circulation
system, traffic volumes, and traffic conditions in the Study Area.   Chapter 4 forecasts and
analyzes future base operating conditions without Project traffic.   Chapter 5 describes the
procedure used to generate Project traffic volumes and the traffic distribution patterns
throughout the Study Area. Chapter 6 presents the intersection operating conditions associated
with operation of the Project added to Existing Conditions, and Chapter 7 presents the
intersection operating conditions associated with operation of the Project added to Future
without Project Conditions (Year 2016). Chapter 8 assesses the potentially significant traffic
impacts associated with the Project compared to the existing and future conditions. Chapter 9
presents the recommended transportation mitigation measures to reduce any impacts created
by the Project. Chapter 10 analyzes traffic impacts in accordance with the requirements of the
CMP. Chapter 11 provides a review of the Project site access and circulation plan. Chapter 12
summarizes the analyses and study conclusions. Analysis worksheets, traffic counts, and any
related documents are provided in the appendices.




                                                                                             2
3
                                                                                    Chapter 2
                                       Traffic Impact Analysis Methodology


This chapter describes the traffic scenarios analyzed, the methodologies used for assessing
intersection and street segment operating conditions, and the significant traffic impact criteria
used in the analysis.




STUDY SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY


This traffic study has been prepared in accordance with the City guidelines, adopted policies,
procedures, and standards, and provides a comprehensive analysis of the potential traffic impacts
associated with the Project.


As described in more detail below, the study analyzed the potential Project-generated traffic
impacts on the street system surrounding the Project Site when compared to Existing
Conditions (Year 2014) and Future Conditions (Year 2016). Consistent with City guidelines,
intersection traffic impacts for the Project were evaluated for typical weekday morning (6:30 AM
to 9:00 AM) and evening (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM) peak periods. The analysis of future year traffic
forecasts was conducted assuming full occupation of the Project and is based on projected
traffic conditions in year 2016 both with and without development of the Project.


Accordingly, the following traffic scenarios were developed and analyzed as part of this study:

      Existing Conditions (Year 2014) – The analysis of existing traffic conditions provides a
       basis for the assessment of existing and future traffic conditions with the addition of
       Project traffic. The Existing Conditions analysis includes a description of key area
       streets and highways, traffic volumes and current operating conditions, and transit
       service in the Project Site vicinity. In accordance with City procedures, intersection
       turning movement counts were collected in March and April 2014 during typical weekday
       morning (6:30 AM to 9:00 AM) and evening (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM) peak. Field
       inspections of the Study Area, which include documentation of lane configurations and
       signal phasing for the analyzed intersections were also conducted in March and April
       2014.




                                                                                                  4
      Existing Plus Project Conditions (Year 2014) – This scenario analyzes the intersection
       operating conditions that could be expected if the Project were fully occupied given the
       existing street system and traffic volumes. In this scenario, the Project-generated traffic
       is added to the Existing Conditions (Year 2014) traffic volumes.

      Future without Project Conditions (Year 2016) – This scenario analyzes the potential
       intersection operating conditions that could be expected as a result of adding regional
       growth and related project traffic to the existing volumes by year 2016. This analysis
       provides the baseline conditions by which Project impacts are evaluated in the future at
       full buildout.

      Future Plus Project Conditions (Year 2016) – This scenario analyzes the potential
       intersection operating conditions that could be expected if the Project were built in the
       projected buildout year (2016) by adding the Project traffic to the Future without Project
       Conditions (Year 2016) traffic volumes.



Intersection Capacity Analyses Methodology

Intersection capacity was analyzed using the methodologies adopted by the City.                  In
accordance with the City policy, the intersection capacity analysis was conducted using the
Synchro software which is based on the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (Transportation
Research Board, 2000) (HCM), for signalized and unsignalized intersections. The HCM
signalized methodology calculates the average delay, in seconds, for each vehicle passing
through intersection during the peak hour, while the HCM unsignalized methodology calculates
the vehicular delay, in seconds, for critical turning movements.


Vehicular delay is equated to a level of service (LOS) designation to characterize the traffic flow
experienced by drivers. Table 1A presents a description of the LOS categories, which range
from excellent, nearly free-flow traffic at LOS A, to congested, stop-and-go conditions at LOS F,
for both signalized and unsignalized intersections, based upon their calculated delay output.




Significant Impact Criteria


Per Traffic Impact Study Guidelines, determination of Project traffic impacts are defined by the
City of Pomona’s significant impact criteria, and are based on the change in LOS for the
affected intersection as follows:




                                                                                                  5
“Signalized Intersections. Any study intersection that is operating at a LOS A, B, C or D for
any study scenario without project traffic in which the addition of project traffic causes the
intersection to degrade to a LOS E or F shall mitigate that impact so as to bring the intersection
back to at least LOS D.


“Any study intersection that is operating at a LOS E or F for any study scenario without project
traffic shall mitigate any impacts so as to bring the intersection back to the overall level of delay
established prior to the project traffic being added.


“Unsignalized Intersections. An impact is considered significant if the study determines that
either section a) or both sections b) and c) occur:

       “a) The addition of project related traffic causes the intersection to move from a LOS D
       or better to a LOS E or worse

       OR

       “b) The project contributes additional traffic to an intersection that is already projected to
       operate at an LOS E or F with background traffic

                                                AND

       “c) One or both of the following conditions are met:
              1) The project adds ten (10) or more trips to any approach
              2) The intersection meets the peak hour traffic signal warrant after the addition of
              project traffic.”




Freeway Mainline Analysis


Freeway mainline segments were analyzed using the Basic Freeway Segments methodology in
the 2010 Highway Capacity Manual (Transportation Research Board, 2010) (2010 HCM).


The freeway mainline segment analysis methodology reports density and LOS. The density is a
measure of the number of passenger cars per mile per lane (pc/mi/ln) on the freeway mainline.
Generally, traffic speeds decrease as vehicle density increases. However, the effect is
especially significant as the capacity of the facility is reached, at which time additional density
results in congestion and breakdown of traffic operations. The LOS is a broader representation




                                                                                                    6
of the overall operation of the facility, ranging from LOS A for free-flowing traffic to LOS F, when
traffic volumes exceed a facility’s capacity. A change in traffic volumes can result in a
corresponding increase or decrease in density without changing the LOS of a facility.


Table 1B summarizes the LOS categories for freeway mainline segments based on the
calculated density output.




Congestion Management Program Analysis


Analysis was also conducted according to the Los Angeles County (County) Congestion
Management Program (CMP) guidelines. The CMP is a State-mandated program that serves as
the monitoring and analytical basis for transportation funding decisions in the County made
through the Regional Transportation Improvement Program (RTIP) and State Transportation
Improvement Program (STIP) processes. The CMP requires that a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)
be performed for all CMP arterial monitoring intersections where a project would add 50 or more
trips during either the morning or evening weekday peak hours and all mainline freeway
monitoring locations where a project would add 150 or more trips (in either direction) during the
morning or evening weekday peak hours. Additionally, it requires a review of potential impacts to
the regional transit system.




                                                                                                   7
                                         TABLE 1A
                               LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS
                        SIGNALIZED AND UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS


                    Signalized
   Level of
                    Intersection                                  Definition
   Service
                    Delay (sec)
                                     EXCELLENT. No vehicle waits longer than one red light and no
      A              0.0 - 10.0
                                     approach phase is fully used.

                                     VERY GOOD. An occasional approach phase is fully utilized;
      B              10.1 - 20.0     many drivers begin to feel somewhat restricted within groups of
                                     vehicles.

                                     GOOD. Occasionally drivers may have to wait through more than
      C              20.1 - 35.0
                                     one red light; backups may develop behind turning vehicles.


                                     FAIR. Delays may be substantial during portions of the rush hours,
      D              35.1 - 55.0     but enough lower volume periods occur to permit clearing of
                                     developing lines, preventing excessive backups.

                                     POOR. Represents the most vehicles intersection approaches can
      E              55.1 - 80.0     accommodate; may be long lines of waiting vehicles through
                                     several signal cycles.

                                     FAILURE. Backups from nearby locations or on cross streets may
                                     restrict or prevent movement of vehicles out of the intersection
       F               > 80.0
                                     approaches. Tremendous delays with continuously increasing
                                     queue lengths.


Source
 Highway Capacity Manual 2000, Transportation Research Board, 2000.




                                                                                                          8
                                             TABLE 1B
                                   LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS
                                   FREEWAY MAINLINE SEGMENTS


   Level of
                      Density [a]                                     Description
   Service

                                         Free-flow speeds prevail. Vehicles are almost completely
         A                 11           unimpeded in their ability to maneuver within the traffic stream.


                                         Free-flow speeds are maintained. The ability to maneuver with
         B            11 and  18       the traffic stream is only slightly restricted.

                                         Flow with speeds at or near free-flow speeds. Freedom to
                                         maneuver within the traffic stream is noticeably restricted, and
         C            18 and  26       lane changes require more care and vigilance on the part of
                                         the driver.

                                         Speeds decline slightly with increasing flows. Freedom to
                                         maneuver with the traffic stream is more noticeably limited, and
         D            26 and  35       the driver experiences reduced physical and psychological
                                         comfort.

                                         Operation at capacity. There are virtually no usable gaps
                                         within the traffic stream, leaving little room to maneuver. Any
         E            35 and  45       disruption can be expected to produce a breakdown with
                                         queuing.

         F                 45           Represents a breakdown in flow and oversaturated conditions.



Source
 Highway Capacity Manual 2010, Transportation Research Board, 2010.
Notes:
 [a] Measured in vehicles per mile per lane (v/m/l) for freeways with a free-flow speed of 55 mph.




                                                                                                             9
                                                                                    Chapter 3
                                                                    Existing Conditions


A comprehensive data collection effort was undertaken to develop a detailed description of
existing conditions in the Project Study Area. The existing conditions analysis relevant to this
study includes an assessment of the existing street system, lane configurations, intersection
traffic controls, an analysis of traffic volumes and current operating conditions, and an
evaluation of the existing public transit service.




STUDY AREA


The Study Area was established by reviewing the existing intersection/corridor operations,
Project peak hour vehicle trip generation, the anticipated distribution of Project vehicular trips,
and the potential impacts of Project traffic.


A traffic analysis study area generally comprises those locations with the greatest potential to
experience significant traffic impacts due to the Project as defined by the lead agency. In the
traffic engineering practice, a study area generally includes those intersections that are:


   1. Immediately adjacent or in close proximity to the project site

   2. In the vicinity of the project site that are documented to have current or projected future
      adverse operational issues

   3. In the vicinity of the project site that are forecast to experience a relatively greater
      percentage of project-related vehicular turning movements (e.g., at freeway ramp
      intersections).


The Project Study Area was designed to ensure that all potentially significantly impacted
intersections, prior to any mitigation, were analyzed, and the boundary of the Study Area was
extended, as necessary, to confirm that there were no significant impacts at or outside the




                                                                                                 10
boundary of the Study Area by reviewing the Project traffic’s travel patterns. The intersections
selected for analysis are consistent with the above criteria.


A total of eight signalized intersections were selected for analysis. Figure 2 illustrates the
location of the Project Site in relation to the surrounding street system and the eight study
intersections.


The eight intersections selected for evaluation are:


   1. Grand Avenue & Temple Avenue
   2. University Drive & Temple Avenue
   3. South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
   4. South Campus Drive & Kellogg Drive
   5. Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive
   6. Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue
   7. State Route (SR) 57 Southbound Off-ramp & Temple Avenue
   8. SR 57 Northbound Off-ramp & Temple Avenue




EXISTING STREET SYSTEM


The Study Area consists of a regional roadway system that offers sub-regional and local access
and circulation opportunities. These transportation facilities generally provide two to five travel
lanes and generally do not allow parking on either side of the street. Typically, the speed limits
range between 35 and 55 miles per hour (mph).




Roadway Descriptions


Primary regional access to the Project Site is provided by the Santa Monica Freeway (I-10),
which generally runs in the east-west direction north of the Study Area, the Orange Freeway
(SR 57), which generally runs in the north-south direction east of the Study Area, and the Chino
Valley Freeway (SR 71), which generally runs in the north-south direction east of the Study
Area. I-10 is located approximately one mile to the north of the Site, with access provided via



                                                                                                 11
an interchange at Kellogg Drive and another interchange at South Campus Drive. SR 57 is
located approximately one-half mile to the east of the Site, with access provided via an
interchange at Temple Avenue. SR 71 is located approximately one and one-half miles to the
east of the Site, with access provided via an interchange at Valley Boulevard.


The following is a brief description of the major streets in the Study Area:


      Temple Avenue – Temple Avenue is a five lane roadway that runs in the east-west
       direction and is located directly south of the Project Site. It provides both local and
       regional access to the Project Site. There is generally no parking allowed on either side
       of the street within the Study Area. The posted speed limit is 45 to 55 mph.

      Kellogg Drive – Kellogg Drive is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south
       direction before curving to the east-west direction and is located north of the Project Site.
       It connects I-10 to South Campus Drive, providing local and regional access to the
       Project Site. There is generally no parking allowed on either side of the street within the
       Study Area. The posted speed limit is 35 mph.

      South Campus Drive – South Campus Drive is a two lane roadway that runs in the north-
       south direction and is located east of the Project Site. It connects East Campus Drive to
       Temple Avenue and provides local access to the Project Site. There is generally no
       parking allowed on either side of the street within the Study Area. The posted speed
       limit is 45 mph.

      Valley Boulevard – Valley Boulevard is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south
       direction and is located east of the Project Site. It provides both local and regional
       access to the Project Site through Temple Avenue. There is generally parking allowed
       on both sides of the street within the Study Area. The posted speed limit is 45 mph.

      Grand Avenue – Grand Avenue is a four lane roadway that runs in the north-south
       direction and is located west of the Project Site near Mt. San Antonio College. It provides
       both local and regional access to the Project Site through Temple Avenue. There is
       generally no parking allowed on either side of the street within the Study Area. The
       posted speed limit is 40 mph.

The existing lane configurations at the Study Area intersections are provided in Appendix A.




EXISTING TRANSIT SYSTEM


The Project area is served by bus lines operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (Metro), Foothill Transit, and the Cal Poly Pomona Bronco Express.




                                                                                                  12
Bus transit service in the Project vicinity is available along the following streets:


      Grand Avenue
      Temple Avenue
      South Campus Drive
      Valley Boulevard
      University Drive


Figure 3 illustrates the existing transit service in the Study Area. Table 2 summarizes the
various transit lines operating in the Study Area for each of the service providers in the region,
the type of service (peak vs. off-peak, express vs. local), and frequency of service. The following
provides a brief description of the bus lines providing service in Project vicinity:


      Metro Local Line 190/194 – Line 190/194 travels east-west on Temple Avenue in the
       vicinity of the Project Site. The line travels from El Monte to Cal Poly Pomona via
       Ramona Boulevard and Valley Boulevard.

      Foothill Transit Line 195 – Line 195 travels north-south on North Campus Drive and
       east-west on Temple Avenue in the vicinity of the Project Site. The line travels from Cal
       Poly Pomona to the Pomona TransCenter via Reservoir Street.

      Foothill Transit Line 289 – Line 289 travels east-west on Temple Avenue and in the
       vicinity of the Project Site. The line travels from the Puente Hills Mall to Pomona via La
       Puente Road, Grand Avenue and Temple Avenue.

      Foothill Transit Line 480 – Line 480 travels north-south on South Campus Drive in the
       vicinity of the Project Site. The line travels from Montclair to West Covina via Mission
       Boulevard.

      Foothill Transit Line 482 – Line 482 travels north-south on South Campus Drive and
       east-west on Temple Avenue in the vicinity of the Project Site. The line travels from
       Pomona to the Puente Hills Mall via Colima Road and Diamond Bar Boulevard.

      Foothill Transit Line 486 – Line 486 travels east-west on Temple Avenue in the vicinity of
       the Project Site. The line travels from Cal Poly Pomona to El Monte via Amar Road and
       Temple Avenue.




                                                                                                 13
EXISTING BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN NETWORK


Existing Bicycle System


Based on the Active Transportation Plan: Bicycle Master Plan and Pedestrian Master Plan (Fehr
& Peers, November 2012), the existing bicycle system in the Study Area consists of a limited
coverage of bicycle lanes (Class II) and bicycle routes (Class III).          Bicycle lanes are a
component of street design with dedicated striping, separating vehicular traffic from bicycle
traffic. These facilities offer a safer environment for both cyclists and motorists. Bicycle routes
are identified as bicycle-friendly streets where motorists and cyclists share the roadway and
there is no dedicated striping of a bicycle lane.       Bicycle routes are preferably located on
collector and lower volume arterial streets. The following bicycle facilities are provided along
corridors within the Study Area:


Bicycle Lanes (Class II). Facilities where bicycles have use of a dedicated and striped lane
within the roadway:


      South Campus Drive between SR 57 and Kellogg Drive


Bicycle Routes (Class III). Facilities where bicycles share the lane with vehicular traffic on a
marked and signed roadway:


      South Campus Drive north of SR 57 and south of Kellogg Drive




Existing Pedestrian Facilities


The walkability of existing facilities is based on the availability of pedestrian routes necessary to
accomplish daily tasks without the use of an automobile. These attributes are quantified by
WalkScore.com, which calculates the walkability of specific addresses by taking into account
the ease of living in the neighborhood with a reduced reliance on automobile travel and assigns
a score out of 100 points. With the limited commercial businesses and cultural facilities in the
vicinity, the Project Site is rated with a score of 48 of 100 possible points (as of April 16, 2014)
and defined as “Car-Dependent so most errands require a car.”



                                                                                                   14
The sidewalks that serve as routes to the existing surface parking lot provide proper connectivity
for a comfortable and safe pedestrian environment.        The sidewalks provide connectivity to
pedestrian crossings at the adjacent study intersections, including Innovation Way & Kellogg
Drive, South Campus Drive & Kellogg Drive, and Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive. All of the
signalized intersections in the Study Area provide marked pedestrian crosswalks and access
ramps with pedestrian phasing. The intersection of Valley Boulevard & Kellogg Drive provides
marked pedestrian crossing on the west side of the intersection only; however, there are no
posted signs prohibiting pedestrian crossings at the north and south side of the intersection.




EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES AND LEVELS OF SERVICE


This section presents the existing peak hour turning movement traffic volumes for the study
intersections, describes the methodology used to assess the traffic conditions at each
intersection, and analyzes the resulting operating conditions at each intersection indicating
delay and LOS.




Existing Traffic Volumes


New intersection turning movement counts were collected during the typical weekday morning
and evening commuter peak periods at one of the eight study intersections. Counts for four of
the study intersections were taken from the Draft Traffic Impact Study for the Parking Structure
2 Project, Cal Poly Pomona, Pomona, California (Gibson Transportation Consulting, Inc., May
2014) and counts for the remaining three study intersections were taken from the Cal Poly
Pomona Campus Replacement Housing and Dining Facility Project Draft Environmental Impact
Report (California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, November 2013).


Older counts were grown by 2% per year to reflect 2014 conditions per City guidelines. Schools
were in session at the time all traffic counts were conducted.


The existing intersection traffic volumes are shown in Figure 4 and the count summary
worksheets are provided in Appendix B. The traffic volumes illustrated in Figure 4 were
analyzed to determine the existing operating conditions at the analyzed intersections.



                                                                                                 15
Existing Intersection Levels of Service


Table 3 summarizes the existing weekday morning and evening peak hour delay and the
corresponding LOS for each of the study intersections. As shown, seven of the eight study
intersections operate at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours under
Existing Conditions.   The following study intersection operates at LOS E during both the
morning and evening peak hours under Existing Conditions:


             South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue


The LOS calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix C.




                                                                                           16
17
18
19
                                                                                             TABLE 2
                                                                                    EXISTING TRANSIT SERVICE

                                                                                                          Service                              Average Headway (minutes)
                                            Provider, Route, and Service Area                                       Hours of Operation
                                                                                                           Type                           AM Peak Period       PM Peak Period
 Metro                                                                                                                                   NB/EB     SB/WB      NB/EB     SB/WB
     190/194      El Monte - Cal Poly Pomona via Ramona Blvd and Valley Blvd                               Local    4:14 AM - 1:57 AM     16         16        13         14
 Foothill Transit                                                                                                                        NB/EB     SB/WB      NB/EB     SB/WB
        195       Cal Poly Pomona - Pomona TransCenter via Reservoir St                                        --   5:35 AM - 7:26 PM     60         60        60         60
        289       Puente Hills Mall - Pomona via La Puente Rd, Grand Ave and Temple Ave                        --   6:15 AM - 8:09 PM     60         60        60         60
        480       Montclair - West Covina via Mission Blvd                                                     --   5:00 AM - 12:22 AM    27         30        27         27
        482       Pomona - Puente Hills Mall via Colima Rd and Diamond Bar Blvd                                --   4:00 AM - 11:49 PM    30         27        30         18
        486       Cal Poly Pomona - El Monte via Amar Rd and Temple Ave                                        --   5:00 AM - 11:52 AM    15         15        15         15

Notes:
 Metro: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 AM Peak from 6-10 AM
 PM Peak from 3-7 PM




                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                          TABLE 3
                           EXISTING CONDITIONS (YEAR 2014)
                   INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                                        Existing
  No                      Intersection                   Peak Hour
                                                                     Delay
                                                                               LOS
                                                                     (sec)
   1.     Grand Avenue &                                   A.M.      43.5          D
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.      32.2          C
   2.     University Drive &                               A.M.      53.4          D
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.      31.8          C
   3.     South Campus Drive &                             A.M.      55.7          E
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.      58.4          E
   4.     South Campus Drive &                             A.M.      36.2          D
          Kellogg Drive                                    P.M.      22.9          C
   5.     Valley Boulevard &                               A.M.      19.5          B
          Kellogg Drive                                    P.M.      11.4          B
   6.     Valley Boulevard &                               A.M.      43.0          D
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.      34.2          C
   7.     SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp &                      A.M.      16.5          B
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.      32.7          C
   8.     SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp &                      A.M.       9.1          A
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.       7.6          A

 Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                       21
                                                                                   Chapter 4
                                            Future without Project Conditions


In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements, the Project’s TIA
considers the effects of the Project in relation to other developments either proposed, approved,
or under construction in the Study Area. These development proposals and the methodologies
used in projecting future traffic conditions without the Project are discussed in this section. The
Future Year 2016 roadway network conditions are also discussed in this chapter in terms of
anticipated supply, demand, and operations (system performance). The Future Year 2016 was
selected to coincide with the projected occupancy of the Project.




CEQA GUIDELINES REGARDING FUTURE TRAFFIC CONDITIONS


The forecast of Future without Project conditions was prepared in accordance with procedures
outlined in Section 15130 of Guidelines for Implementation of the California Environmental Quality
Act, Chapter 3, Title 14, California Code of Regulations (California Natural Resources Agency,
amended July 27, 2007) (Guidelines). Specifically, Guidelines provides two options for developing
the cumulative traffic volume forecast:


       “(A) A list of past, present, and probable future projects producing related or
       cumulative impacts, including, if necessary, those projects outside the control of
       the [lead] agency, or

       “(B) A summary of projections contained in an adopted general plan or related
       planning document, or in a prior environmental document which has been adopted
       or certified, which described or evaluated regional or area wide conditions
       contributing to the cumulative impact. Any such planning document shall be
       referenced and made available to the public at a location specified by the lead
       agency.”

Accordingly, the traffic analysis provides a highly conservative estimate of Future without Project
traffic volumes as it incorporates both the “A” and “B” options outlined in Guidelines for purposes
of developing the forecast.




                                                                                                 22
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT TRAFFIC VOLUMES


The Future without Project traffic volumes reflect growth in traffic over existing conditions from
two sources. The first source is the ambient growth that increases the base traffic due to
regional growth and development outside the Study Area. The second source is the contribution
of traffic generated by projects which are proposed, approved, or under construction in the
vicinity of the Study Area (collectively, the Related Projects).




Ambient Traffic Growth


Existing traffic is expected to increase as a result of regional growth and development. Based
on the City’s guidelines, an ambient growth factor of 2.0% per year was used to adjust the
existing traffic volumes to the Project’s projected occupancy year of 2016. The total adjustment
applied over the two-year period to full buildout of the Project was, therefore, 4.0%.




Related Projects


In accordance with CEQA requirements, this study considered the effects of the Project in
relation to the Related Projects. Considering the isolated location of the Cal Poly Pomona
campus, the only two Related Projects expected to add traffic to the study intersections are Cal
Poly Pomona Campus Replacement Housing and Dining Facility Project, with a buildout year of
2023, and the Parking Structure 2 Project, with a buildout year of 2016. The inclusion of the Cal
Poly Pomona Campus Replacement Housing and Dining Facility Project is conservative in that
it will not be fully operational prior to the opening of Parking Structure 2 in 2016.       Other
developments outside the Study Area that have been determined to be geographically too far
from the Project Site to add substantially to the potential cumulative effects of Related Project
traffic within the Study Area, as well as any additional projects that may be proposed between
now and occupancy of the Project, are accounted for in the ambient growth calculations.


The trips associated with the Related Projects are illustrated in Figure 5. The geographical
distribution of these Related Projects is consistent with the traffic study for this Project. The
volumes for these Related Projects were added to the existing traffic volumes after adjustment



                                                                                                23
for ambient growth through the assumed buildout year of 2016. The resulting Future without
Project intersection traffic volumes are illustrated in Figure 6, which includes both the ambient
growth and the Related Projects.




INTERSECTION OPERATIONS


This section presents the methodology and results of the intersection operations for the Future
without Project conditions that are defined by the traffic volumes, intersection lane
configurations, and roadways that would exist in the year 2016.             No future roadway
improvements were included as part of the future conditions analyses.


The projected Future without Project (Year 2016) intersection operating conditions for the
weekday morning and evening peak hours are shown in Table 4. As shown, five of the eight
study intersections operate at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak hours.
Three of the eight study intersections operate at LOS E or F during either the morning or
evening peak hour:


              University Drive & Temple Avenue
              South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
              Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue


The LOS calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix C.




                                                                                               24
25
26
                                          TABLE 4
                FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)
                   INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                                     Future withot Project
  No                      Intersection                   Peak Hour
                                                                       Delay
                                                                                   LOS
                                                                       (sec)
   1.     Grand Avenue &                                   A.M.        52.9         D
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        36.4         D
   2.     University Drive &                               A.M.         72.2        E
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        114.8        F
   3.     South Campus Drive &                             A.M.        121.2        F
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        85.2         F
   4.     South Campus Drive &                             A.M.        36.1         D
          Kellogg Drive                                    P.M.        23.4         C
   5.     Valley Boulevard &                               A.M.        23.5         C
          Kellogg Drive                                    P.M.        11.7         B
   6.     Valley Boulevard &                               A.M.        73.3         E
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        52.1         D
   7.     SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp &                      A.M.        18.6         B
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        41.1         D
   8.     SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp &                      A.M.        11.2         B
          Temple Avenue                                    P.M.        8.4          A

 Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                             27
                                                                                    Chapter 5
                                                                             Project Traffic


An estimate of the Project’s potential trip generation, trip distribution patterns, and trip
assignment was prepared for the Project. These components form the basis of the Project’s
traffic impact analysis.




PROJECT TRAFFIC VOLUMES


The first step of the forecasting process is trip generation, which estimates the total arriving and
departing trips generated by the Project on a peak hour basis by applying the appropriate
vehicle trip generation equations, or rates, to the size and land use designation of the Project
development.


The second step of the forecasting process is trip distribution, which identifies the origins and
destinations of inbound and outbound Project trips. These origins and destinations are typically
based on demographics and existing/anticipated travel patterns in the Study Area. Localized
routes of travel through the Study Area are developed based on existing traffic patterns and
relative travel times on various corridors.


The third step of the forecasting process is traffic assignment. This involves applying the traffic
generated by the Project (the trip generation) to the intersections and street segments in the
Study Area according to the projected trip distribution patterns. These traffic volumes can then
be added to existing and future background conditions to represent the cumulative effect of
including Project related traffic volumes to the Study Area once the Project is complete.


With the forecasting process complete and Project traffic assignments developed, the impact of
the proposed Project is isolated by comparing operational (i.e., LOS) conditions at the study
intersections using expected future traffic volumes without and with to forecast Project traffic.




                                                                                                  28
The need for site-specific and/or cumulative local area traffic improvements may then be
evaluated and the significance of the Project’s impacts identified.




Project Trip Generation


The Project consists of 123,060 sf of Research and Development land use. The trip generation
rates from Trip Generation, 9th Edition (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2012) for Land
Use Code 760 (Research and Development Center) were used to develop the Project trip
generation estimates.


As shown in Table 5, the Project is estimated to generate 998 daily trips, including 150 trips
during the morning peak hour (125 inbound trips and 25 outbound trips) and 132 trips during the
evening peak hour (20 inbound trips and 112 outbound trips).




Project Trip Distribution


The traffic volumes for the proposed Project were distributed and assigned to the local street
system based on existing/anticipated travel patterns in the Study Area for research/office
employee origins/destinations. Localized routes of travel through the Study Area were
developed based on existing traffic patterns and relative travel times on various corridors and
the level of accessibility of the route to and from the Project Site. The Project trip distribution
used for this analysis was developed based on the locations of the Project driveways and the
accessibility they would provide to the occupants of the building.


Traffic volumes for the Project were distributed to the surrounding street system based on the
following general pattern: approximately 16% of the traffic is generated to/from the north, 29%
to/from the east, 29% to/from the south, and 26% to/from the west. The Project trip distribution
is illustrated in Figure 7.




                                                                                                 29
Project Trip Assignment


The assignment of traffic is calculated by applying the trip distribution patterns to the trip
generation estimates. Figure 8 illustrates the net new Project traffic volumes at the study
intersections.




                                                                                            30
31
32
                                                                                    TABLE 5
                                                                               TRIP GENERATION

                                                                             Trip Generation Rates [a]
                                                                                                               AM Peak Hour                        PM Peak Hour
 Land Use                                                         Size                 Daily
                                                                                                    Inbound      Outbound        Total   Inbound    Outbound      Total

 Research and Development Center (ITE 760)                    per 1,000 sf              8.11          83%            17%         1.22     15%          85%        1.07



                                                                             Trip Generation Estimates
                                                                                                               AM Peak Hour                        PM Peak Hour
 Land Use                                                         Size                 Daily
                                                                                                    Inbound      Outbound        Total   Inbound    Outbound      Total

   Research/Office Building                                123,060 sf                   998           125            25          150       20          112        132


Notes:
 [a] Daily and Peak Hour trip generation rates from Trip Generation, 9th Edition, Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2012.




                                                                                                                                                                    33
                                                                                  Chapter 6
                                              Existing Plus Project Conditions


This chapter describes the results of the analysis of intersection operating conditions associated
with the Project development added to Existing Conditions. Within this chapter, the Existing
Plus Project conditions are presented for the eight study intersections. The results of these
analyses form the basis of the intersection impact analysis presented in Chapter 8.




EXISTING PLUS PROJECT INTERSECTION OPERATIONS


The Existing Plus Project conditions are analyzed on the same roadway network as the existing
conditions. The Project-only traffic volumes described in Chapter 5 and shown in Figure 8 were
added to the Existing traffic volumes shown in Figure 4 to obtain the Existing Plus Project peak
hour traffic volumes shown in Figure 9.


The study intersections were analyzed using the methodologies described in Chapter 2. The
Existing Plus Project intersection operating conditions for typical weekday morning and evening
peak hours are shown in Table 6. As shown, under the Existing Plus Project conditions, seven
of the eight study intersections are projected to operate at LOS D or better during both the
morning and evening peak hours.


The following intersection is anticipated to operate at LOS E during both the morning and
evening peak hour:


              South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue


Detailed LOS worksheets are provided in Appendix C.




                                                                                                34
35
                                                                  TABLE 6
                                        EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS (YEAR 2014)
                                         INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                                         Existing       Existing Plus Project Change in
 No                     Intersection                     Peak Hour                                              Delay     Impact
                                                                     Delay                Delay                 (sec)
                                                                                LOS                   LOS
                                                                     (sec)                (sec)
  1.     Grand Avenue &                                    A.M.       43.5          D     44.0        D         0.5        NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       32.2          C     32.5        C         0.3        NO
  2.     University Drive &                                A.M.       53.4          D     53.7        D         0.3        NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       31.8          C     31.9        C         0.1        NO
  3.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.       55.7          E     56.4        E         0.7        YES
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       58.4          E     58.9        E         0.5        YES
  4.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.       36.2          D     36.6        D         0.4        NO
         Kellogg Drive                                     P.M.       22.9          C     23.0        C         0.1        NO
  5.     Valley Boulevard &                                A.M.       19.5          B     20.2        C         0.7        NO
         Kellogg Drive                                     P.M.       11.4          B     11.5        B         0.1        NO
  6.     Valley Boulevard &                                A.M.       43.0          D     46.1        D         3.1        NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       34.2          C     38.0        D         3.8        NO
  7.     SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp &                       A.M.       16.5          B     16.9        B         0.4        NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       32.7          C     33.2        C         0.5        NO
  8.     SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp &                       A.M.       9.1           A      9.3        A         0.2        NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       7.6           A      7.7        A         0.1        NO

Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                                                                   36
                                                                                   Chapter 7
                                                 Future Plus Project Conditions


This chapter describes the results of the analysis of intersection operating conditions associated
with the Project development added to future conditions. The analysis of year 2016 corresponds
to the anticipated buildout year of the Project. Within this chapter, the Future Plus Project
conditions are presented for the eight study intersections. The results of these analyses form
the basis of the intersection impact analysis presented in Chapter 8.




FUTURE PLUS PROJECT (YEAR 2016) INTERSECTION OPERATIONS


The Future Plus Project (Year 2016) conditions analyzed the traffic volumes, roadways, and
intersection configurations that would exist in the year 2016 following full development of the
Project without improvements to the roadway network. The Project-only traffic volumes
described in Chapter 5 and shown in Figure 8 were added to the Future without Project (Year
2016) traffic volumes shown in Figure 6 to obtain the Future Plus Project (Year 2016) peak hour
traffic volumes shown in Figure 10.


The study intersections were analyzed using the methodologies described in Chapter 2. The
Future Plus Project (Year 2016) intersection operating conditions for typical weekday morning
and evening peak hours are shown in Table 7. As shown, under the Future Plus Project (Year
2016) conditions, five of the eight study intersections are projected to operate at LOS D or better
during both the morning and evening peak hours.           The following three intersections are
anticipated to operate at LOS E or F during either the morning or evening peak hour:


              University Drive & Temple Avenue
              South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue
              Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue


Detailed LOS worksheets are provided in Appendix C.



                                                                                                 37
38
                                                                  TABLE 7
                                        FUTURE PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)
                                         INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                                      Future without     Future Plus
                                                                         Project           Project     Change in
 No                     Intersection                     Peak Hour                                       Delay     Impact
                                                                     Delay             Delay             (sec)
                                                                                LOS              LOS
                                                                     (sec)             (sec)
  1.     Grand Avenue &                                    A.M.       52.9       D     53.5        D      0.6       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       36.4       D     37.0        D      0.6       NO
  2.     University Drive &                                A.M.      72.2        E      72.2       E      0.0       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.      114.8       F     114.8       F      0.0       NO
  3.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.      121.2       F     122.0       F      0.8       YES
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.      85.2        F     85.9        F      0.7       YES
  4.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.       36.1       D     36.9        D      0.8       NO
         Kellogg Drive                                     P.M.       23.4       C     24.0        C      0.6       NO
  5.     Valley Boulevard &                                A.M.       23.5       C     24.2        C      0.7       NO
         Kellogg Drive                                     P.M.       11.7       B     11.8        B      0.1       NO
  6.     Valley Boulevard &                                A.M.       73.3       E     79.4        E      6.1       YES
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       52.1       D     55.7        E      3.6       YES
  7.     SR 57 Southbound Off-Ramp &                       A.M.       18.6       B     19.0        B      0.4       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       41.1       D     43.5        D      2.4       NO
  8.     SR 57 Northbound Off-Ramp &                       A.M.       11.2       B     11.5        B      0.3       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       8.4        A     8.4         A      0.0       NO

Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                                                            39
                                                                                      Chapter 8
                                                                Traffic Impact Analysis


This chapter describes the results of the intersection impact analysis for the proposed Project
under both Existing (Year 2014) and Future (Year 2016) conditions. Both analyses measured
significant intersection impacts according to the impact criteria specified by the City.


The relative impact of added Project traffic volumes during the peak hours was evaluated based
on a comparative analysis of both existing and future operating conditions without the Project at
the study intersections. The previously discussed significance criteria and thresholds outlined in
Chapter 2 were used to determine the significance of a traffic impact caused by the Project on
the study intersections.




EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS


Table 6 shows the Project’s incremental increases in delay at each of the intersections. Based
on the City’s significance criteria, the Project is anticipated to result in significant impacts at one
of the study intersections during both peak hours under the Existing Plus Project conditions.
Therefore, mitigation measures are required, as detailed in Chapter 9.




FUTURE PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)


Table 7 shows the Project’s incremental increases in delay at each of the intersections. Based
on the City’s significance criteria, the Project is anticipated to result in significant impacts at two
of the study intersections during either the morning or evening peak hours under the Future Plus
Project (Year 2016) conditions. Therefore, mitigation measures are identified, as detailed in
Chapter 9.




                                                                                                     40
FREEWAY MAINLINE SEGMENT ANALYSIS


The following freeway mainline segments were analyzed using the methodologies described in
Chapter 2:


             1. I-10 West of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
             2. I-10 East of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
             3. SR 57 North of Temple Avenue
             4. SR 57 South of Temple Avenue




Existing Operating Conditions


The Existing and Existing Plus Project Conditions (Year 2014) freeway mainline operating
conditions for typical weekday morning and evening peak hours are shown in Table 8. As
shown, the maximum increase in density caused by the Project is 0.1 pc/mi/ln and there is no
change in the LOS. Therefore, the impacts on the freeway mainline segments caused by the
Project for the Existing Conditions are considered to be less than significant.




Future Operating Conditions


The Future and Future Plus Project Conditions (Year 2016) freeway mainline operating
conditions for typical weekday morning and evening peak hours are shown in Table 9. As
shown, the maximum increase in density caused by the Project is 0.2 pc/mi/ln and there is no
change in the LOS. Therefore, the impacts on the freeway mainline segments caused by the
Project for the Future Conditions are considered to be less than significant.


Detailed freeway mainline analysis sheets are provided in Appendix D.




                                                                                          41
                                                              TABLE 8
                                               EXISTING CONDITIONS (YEAR 2014)
                         FREEWAY MAINLINE SEGMENT PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS


                                                       Peak                        Existing       Existing Plus Project Change in
No.                Freeway Segment                                 Direction
                                                       Hour                                                              Density
                                                                               Density    LOS      Density      LOS
                                                                      EB        32.8          D     32.9        D         0.1
                                                        AM
                                                                     WB         36.3          E     36.3        E         0.0
1.     I-10 East of Via Verde
                                                                      EB        39.5          E     39.6        E         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                     WB         34.6          D     34.7        D         0.1
                                                                      EB        39.8          E     39.8        E         0.0
                                                        AM
                                                                     WB         44.1          E     44.2        E         0.1
2.     I-10 West of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
                                                                      EB        48.1          F     48.2        F         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                     WB         42.0          E     42.0        E         0.0
                                                                      NB        27.8          D     27.9        D         0.1
                                                        AM
                                                                      SB        29.7          D     29.8        D         0.1
3.     SR 57 North of Temple Avenue
                                                                      NB        29.0          D     29.1        D         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                      SB        32.0          D     32.1        D         0.1
                                                                      NB        26.0          C     26.1        D         0.1
                                                        AM
                                                                      SB        27.7          D     27.7        D         0.0
4.     SR 57 South of Temple Avenue
                                                                      NB        27.1          D     27.2        D         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                      SB        30.0          D     30.0        D         0.0

Notes:
Density reported in passenger cars per mile per lane (pc/mi/ln).




                                                                                                                                    42
                                                              TABLE 9
                                                FUTURE CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)
                                FREEWAY MAINLINE SEGMENT PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE


                                                                                Future without
                                                       Peak                                      Future Plus Project Change in
No.                Freeway Segment                                 Direction       Project
                                                       Hour                                                           Density
                                                                               Density    LOS    Density      LOS
                                                                      EB        34.1       D      34.2        D         0.1
                                                        AM
                                                                     WB         37.7       E      37.8        E         0.1
1.     I-10 East of Via Verde
                                                                      EB        41.1       E      41.2        E         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                     WB         35.9       E      36.1        E         0.2
                                                                      EB        41.4       E      41.4        E         0
                                                        AM
                                                                     WB         45.9       F      46.0        F         0.1
2.     I-10 West of SR 57/SR 71 Junction
                                                                      EB        50.0       F      50.1        F         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                     WB         43.7       E      43.7        E         0
                                                                      NB        28.9       D      29.0        D         0.1
                                                        AM
                                                                      SB        30.8       D      30.9        D         0.1
3.     SR 57 North of Temple Avenue
                                                                      NB        30.2       D      30.3        D         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                      SB        33.3       D      33.3        D         0
                                                                      NB        27.1       D      27.1        D         0
                                                        AM
                                                                      SB        28.8       D      28.9        D         0.1
4.     SR 57 South of Temple Avenue
                                                                      NB        28.2       D      28.3        D         0.1
                                                        PM
                                                                      SB        31.2       D      31.2        D         0

Notes:
Density reported in passenger cars per mile per lane (pc/mi/ln).




                                                                                                                                 43
                                                                                   Chapter 9
                                             Transportation Mitigation Program


This chapter presents the mitigation program designed to alleviate the transportation impacts at
study intersections associated with construction of the Project and to improve traffic operations
in the Project vicinity. The various guidelines, methods, and assumptions mandated by the
relevant local jurisdiction, wherever applicable, have been used in the preparation of this
analysis.


The various mitigation measures described in this chapter were tested against the significant
traffic impacts found in both the Existing Plus Project and the Future Plus Project (Year 2016)
analyses presented in Chapter 8. As described in that chapter, the Existing Plus Project and
Future Plus Project conditions, before mitigation, are expected to generate significant traffic
impacts at study intersections during either the morning or evening peak hours. To alleviate
these impacts, specific physical intersection improvements have been identified.




SPECIFIC INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS

Intersection improvements designed to alleviate the significant impacts of the Project consist of
physical improvements and associated signal phasing enhancements. Widening and/or other
improvements to the intersections would be designed to meet the requirements of the
jurisdiction(s) responsible for the intersection.


Following is a description of the specific mitigation measures identified for the significantly
impacted intersections.

      Intersection #3 – South Campus Drive & Temple Avenue. Convert the existing
       southbound shared through/left-turn lane into a shared through/left-turn/right-turn lane.
       This may be implemented by restriping the center shared through/left-turn lane for a
       shared through/left-turn/right-turn operation. After the mitigation, the southbound
       approach would provide one left-turn lane, one shared through/left-turn/right-turn lane,




                                                                                               44
       and one right-turn lane. This improvement may be accommodated within the existing
       right-of-way.

      Intersection #6 – Valley Boulevard & Temple Avenue. Convert one of the existing
       southbound through lanes into a shared through/right-turn lane. This may be
       implemented by restriping the through lane for a shared through/right-turn operation.
       After the mitigation, the southbound approach would provide one left-turn lane, one
       through lane, one shared through/right-turn lane, and one right-turn lane. This
       improvement may be accommodated within the existing right-of-way.


The physical improvements identified above are feasible and would serve to improve operating
conditions at the two intersections identified in Tables 6 and 7.




EXISTING PLUS PROJECT WITH MITIGATION TRAFFIC CONDITIONS

This section details the traffic volumes, intersection operating conditions, and significant traffic
impacts from the Project on the existing environment (year 2014) after implementation of the
mitigation program.




Intersection Operations


The Existing Plus Project with Mitigation conditions are defined by the traffic volumes,
roadways, and intersection configurations that would exist following development of the Project
and the specific intersection improvement identified above.


The study intersection was analyzed using the methodologies described in Chapter 2. The
Existing Plus Project with Mitigation intersection operating conditions for typical weekday
morning and evening peak hours are shown in Table 10. As shown, with implementation of the
recommended mitigation on the Existing Plus Project scenario, the intersection is mitigated to
an acceptable LOS.


Detailed LOS worksheets are provided in Appendix C.




                                                                                                  45
FUTURE PLUS PROJECT WITH MITIGATION TRAFFIC CONDITIONS

This section details the traffic volumes, intersection operating conditions, and significant traffic
impacts from the Project on the future environment (year 2016) after implementation of the
mitigation program.




Intersection Operations


The Future Plus Project with Mitigation conditions are defined by the traffic volumes, roadways,
and intersection configurations that would exist in the year 2016 following development of the
Project and the specific intersection improvements identified above.


The study intersections were analyzed using the methodologies described in Chapter 2. The
Future Plus Project with Mitigation intersection operating conditions for typical weekday morning
and evening peak hours are shown in Table 11.            As shown, after implementation of the
recommended mitigation measures, all intersections are mitigated to acceptable LOS or to pre-
project operation.

Detailed LOS worksheets are provided in Appendix C.




                                                                                                  46
                                                                  TABLE 10
                             EXISTING PLUS PROJECT WITH MITIGATION CONDITIONS (YEAR 2014)
                                         INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE

                                                                                        Existing Plus Project
                                                                         Existing                             Change in
                                                                                             (Mitigated)
 No                     Intersection                     Peak Hour                                              Delay     Impact
                                                                     Delay                Delay                 (sec)
                                                                                LOS                   LOS
                                                                     (sec)                (sec)
  3.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.       55.7          E     53.5        D         -2.2       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       58.4          E     57.9        E         -0.5       NO

Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                                                                   47
                                                                  TABLE 11
                              FUTURE PLUS PROJECT WITH MITIGATION CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)
                                         INTERSECTION PEAK HOUR LEVELS OF SERVICE

                                                                      Future without      Future Plus
                                                                         Project       Project (Mitigated)   Change in
 No                     Intersection                     Peak Hour                                             Delay     Impact
                                                                     Delay             Delay                   (sec)
                                                                                LOS                LOS
                                                                     (sec)             (sec)
  3.     South Campus Drive &                              A.M.       121.2      F      106.5        F         -14.7      NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       85.2       F      81.6         F          -3.6      NO
  6.     Valley Boulevard &                                A.M.       73.3       E      68.2         E         -5.1       NO
         Temple Avenue                                     P.M.       52.1       D      48.1         D         -4.0       NO

Notes:
Delay is measured in seconds (using HCM based Synchro)




                                                                                                                                  48
                                                                                     Chapter 10
                              Congestion Management Program Analysis


The CMP requires that when a TIA is prepared for a project, traffic and transit impact analyses
be conducted for select regional facilities based on the amount of project traffic expected to use
these facilities. The operating conditions analysis at all CMP arterial and freeway monitoring
stations that may be impacted by the Project was performed in accordance with the TIA
guidelines referenced in the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County
(Metro, 2010).




CMP SIGNIFICANT TRAFFIC IMPACT CRITERIA


The CMP guidelines state that a CMP freeway analysis must be conducted if 150 or more trips
attributable to the proposed development are added to a mainline freeway monitoring location in
either direction during the morning or evening weekday peak hours. Similarly, a CMP arterial
monitoring station analysis must be conducted if 50 or more peak hour project trips are added to
a CMP arterial monitoring station during the morning or evening weekday commuter peak
hours.


A significant project-related CMP impact would be identified if the CMP facility is projected to
operate at LOS F (V/C > 1.00) and if the project traffic causes an incremental change in the V/C
ratio of 0.02 or greater. The proposed development would not be considered to have a
regionally significant impact, regardless of the increase in V/C ratio, if the analyzed facility is
projected to operate at LOS E or better after the addition of the project traffic.




CMP FREEWAY ANALYSIS

The CMP freeway monitoring stations that will provide access to the Project Site include:




                                                                                                 49
      I-210 at San Dimas Avenue, San Dimas, CA

      I-210 east of Indian Hill Boulevard, Claremont, CA

      I-10 at Grand Avenue, Covina, CA

      I-10 at Dudley Street, Pomona, CA

      I-10 at Indian Hill Boulevard, Claremont, CA

      SR 57 south of the junction of I-10, SR 71, and I-210, Pomona, CA

      SR 60 at Brea Canyon Road, Diamond Bar, CA

      SR 60 east of SR 57


Based on the Project-only traffic shown in Figure 8, the Project is expected to add fewer than
150 peak hour trips distributed to the freeways in the area. Therefore, the Project’s CMP
freeway impacts are considered to be less than significant and no further analysis is required.




CMP ARTERIAL MONITORING STATION ANALYSIS


The only CMP arterial monitoring station closest to the Project Site is the intersection of:


      SR 71 & Mission Boulevard, approximately two miles east of the Project Site.

Based on the Project-only traffic shown in Figure 8, the Project is expected to add fewer than 50
trips during the peak hours at this intersection. Therefore, the Project’s CMP arterial impacts are
considered to be less than significant, and no further analysis is required.




REGIONAL TRANSIT IMPACT ANALYSIS


Section B.8.4 of the CMP provides a methodology for estimating the number of transit trips
expected to result from a proposed project based on the number of vehicle trips. This
methodology assumes average vehicle occupancy (AVO) factor of 1.4 in order to estimate the




                                                                                                  50
number of person trips to and from the Project. Additionally, the methodology states that 3.5%
of the total person trips will typically use transit for most projects.


Per the trip generation analysis shown in Table 5, the Project is expected to result in 150
morning peak hour trips and 132 evening peak hour trips. Applying the AVO factor of 1.4 and
3.5% of person trips using transit results in the following number of total transit trips:


        Morning Peak Hour
                150 x 1.4 = 210 person trips
                210 x 3.5% = 7 transit trips


        Evening Peak Hour
                132 x 1.4 = 185 person trips
                185 x 3.5% = 6 transit trips


As shown above, the Project is anticipated to result in seven transit trips in the morning peak
hour and six transit trips in the evening peak hour. The Project location is well served by
numerous established transit routes and these trips are spread across the commuter network.
With approximately 14 buses during the morning peak hour serving the Cal Poly Pomona
campus adjacent to the Project Site, the Project would result in an average increase of fewer
than one transit trip per bus during both peak hours. Thus, the existing service in the vicinity will
adequately accommodate the Project-generated transit trips during the morning peak hour and
is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the transit system during either the morning or
evening peak hour. Therefore, impacts on existing and future transit services in the Project
vicinity are expected to be less than significant.




                                                                                                   51
                                                                                      Chapter 11
                                                       Site Access and Circulation


This chapter summarizes the site access and internal circulation for the Project. The access
impact analysis relates to the provision of access to and from the Project Site, which may
include safety, operational, or capacity impacts.




PROPOSED SITE ACCESS AND CIRCULATION


The Project proposes driveways on Innovation Way and Kellogg Drive. Each driveway should
maintain 30 feet (including apron and flares) to meet recommended width requirements for two-
way traffic, including passenger vehicles and delivery trucks. The new building will be located in
the middle of the Project Site, with the surface parking lot surrounding all four sides. The aisle
widths are adequate to allow circulation of vehicles without significant conflicts.


Both driveways are designed to operate without turning restrictions. The primary driveway on
Kellogg Drive requires modification of the median to allow left turns entering as well as left turns
exiting the Project. The driveway throat off Kellogg Drive provides adequate storage to stack
vehicles on site without queuing into the public street.


Secondary access off Innovation Way is designed to allow full movements without restrictions
and provides adequate access to parking bays. Traffic volumes on Innovation Way are
expected to be significantly lower than Kellogg Drive and no significant conflicts are noted
based on the current site design.




                                                                                                  52
                                                                                Chapter 12
                                                      Summary and Conclusions


This study was undertaken to analyze the potential traffic impacts of the Project on the local
street system. The following summarizes the results of this analysis:


      The Project consists of the development of a 123,060 sf Research and Development
       office building with driveway access provided on Kellogg Drive and Innovation Way.

      The Project is anticipated to result in 150 trips during the morning peak hour and 132
       trips during the evening peak hour.

      The Project traffic was added to the existing circulation system to develop the Existing
       Plus Project traffic conditions. Based on City significance criteria, impacts at one of the
       study intersections was determined to be significant under Existing Plus Project
       Conditions during either the morning or evening peak hours. Therefore, mitigation
       measures are required.

      Future traffic conditions in the Study Area were forecast for the Project buildout year of
       2016. Based on City significance criteria, impacts at two of the study intersections were
       determined to be significant under Future Plus Project (Year 2016) Conditions during
       either the morning or evening peak hours. Therefore, mitigation measures are required.

      Mitigation measures at two of the study intersections were identified to alleviate the
       impacts caused by the Project traffic. After the implementation of the mitigation
       measures, all impacts are expected to be less than significant.

      Analysis of potential impacts on the regional transportation system conducted in
       accordance with CMP guidelines determined that the Project would not have a
       significant impact on the regional freeway, arterial street system or transit system.

      The primary access from Kellogg Drive requires median modifications to accommodate
       left turns. Secondary access from Innovation Way is adequate to allow all turning
       movements. Both driveways should be designed for 30 foot widths to accommodate
       passenger vehicles and delivery trucks.




                                                                                                53
                                                                             References


Active Transportation Plan: Bicycle Master Plan and Pedestrian Master Plan, Fehr & Peers,
November 2012.

2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2000.

2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 2010.

2010 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2010.

Cal Poly Pomona Campus Replacement Housing and Dining Facility Project Draft
Environmental Impact Report, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, November
2013.

Draft Traffic Impact Study for the Parking Structure 2 Project, Cal Poly Pomona, Pomona,
California, Gibson Transportation Consulting, Inc., May 2014.

Guidelines for Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act, Chapter 3, Title 14,
California Code of Regulations, California Natural Resources Agency, amended July 27, 2007.

Traffic Impact Study Guidelines, City of Pomona Public Works Department, February 2012.

Trip Generation, 9th Edition, Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2012.
                    Appendix A

Intersection Lane Configurations
  Appendix B

Traffic Counts
WILTEC                                                                              Tel: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969     info@wiltecusa.com
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                               CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                  TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S       GRAND AVENUE
                             E/W       TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                  POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1            2         3        4        5      6         7             8        9            10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT     WBRT     WBTH   WBLT      NBRT         NBTH      NBLT          EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-645              23          205        15       19       46      8        33            78       10            21        49           29        536
645-700              16          175        33       24       72     13        47           126       26            30        62           43        667
700-715              25          227        71       36       77     17       110           194       28            21       114           45        965
715-730              48          322        59       36       79     12       138           227       26            29       174           66       1216
730-745              42          296        91       44       85     22       205           302       44            34       171           73       1409
745-800              50          259        88       63       82     28       174           303       33            27       214           85       1406
800-815              62          236        65       49       71     27       175           304       54            47       139           75       1304
815-830              49          224        55       40      107     23       117           223       67            56        91           58       1110
830-845              63          252        51       13       52     13        96           155       55            67       114           71       1002
845-900              42          218        57       29       52     18        75           183       72            51       102           91        990
HOUR TOTALS           1            2         3        4        5      6         7             8        9            10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT     WBRT     WBTH   WBLT      NBRT         NBTH      NBLT          EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-730             112          929       178      115      274     50       328           625       90           101       399          183       3384
645-745             131         1020       254      140      313     64       500           849      124           114       521          227       4257
700-800             165         1104       309      179      323     79       627          1026      131           111       673          269       4996
715-815             202         1113       303      192      317     89       692          1136      157           137       698          299       5335
730-830             203         1015       299      196      345    100       671          1132      198           164       615          291       5229
745-845             224          971       259      165      312     91       562           985      209           197       558          289       4822
800-900             216          930       228      131      282     81       463           865      248           221       446          295       4406

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                    192

                                         202      1113      303                     317

                                                                                    89



                                           299

TEMPLE AVENUE                              698                     157     1136          692

                                           137                            GRAND AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                         BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST      SOUTH     WEST     TOTAL           15 MIN COUNTS           NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG       LEG       LEG                      PERIOD                  LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG
630-645                2      1      0      2        5                    630-645                         0           0           0          1           1
645-700                2      1      1      0        4                    645-700                         0           0           0          0           0
700-715                4      3      2      1       10                    700-715                         0           0           0          0           0
715-730                2      1      1      0        4                    715-730                         0           0           0          1           1
730-745                8      3      0      6       17                    730-745                         1           0           1          0           2
745-800               12      0      0      3       15                    745-800                         0           0           0          0           0
800-815                7      7      0      2       16                    800-815                         0           0           0          0           0
815-830                1      1      1      4        7                    815-830                         0           0           0          0           0
830-845                6      6      0      0       12                    830-845                         0           0           0          0           0
845-900                2      2      0      1        5                    845-900                         0           0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH EAST     SOUTH WEST    TOTAL                       HOUR TOTALS             NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG     LEG    LEG    LEG                                PERIOD                  LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG
630-730               10      6      4      3       23                    630-730                         0           0           0          2           2
645-745               16      8      4      7       35                    645-745                         1           0           1          1           3
700-800               26      7      3     10       46                    700-800                         1           0           1          1           3
715-815               29     11      1     11       52                    715-815                         1           0           1          1           3
730-830               28     11      1     15       55                    730-830                         1           0           1          0           2
745-845               26     14      1      9       50                    745-845                         0           0           0          0           0
800-900               16     16      1      7       40                    800-900                         0           0           0          0           0
WILTEC                                                                                                           Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                  GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                 CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                    TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                  4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S         GRAND AVENUE
                             E/W         TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                    POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS          1           2           3          4            5         6         7             8        9           10         11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT      WBRT         WBTH       WBLT     NBRT          NBTH      NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415               67         193          53         44           91        59        95           224       72           68         88          71       1125
415-430               59         200          48         53          119        90        78           217       52           58        119          77       1170
430-445               72         233          67         63          139        82        58           235       50           55         99          67       1220
445-500               63         204          61         55          142        99        89           238       51           51        117          80       1250
500-515               74         243          48         56          161        74        78           286       56           61        105          67       1309
515-530               52         214          37         35          151        85        78           279       52           69        118          88       1258
530-545               75         195          73         32          140        65        96           289       76           51        109          68       1269
545-600               57         207          72         50          123        68       116           263       58           45        133          78       1270
HOUR TOTALS            1           2           3          4            5         6         7             8        9           10         11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT      WBRT         WBTH       WBLT     NBRT          NBTH      NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500              261         830         229        215          491       330       320           914      225          232        423         295       4765
415-515              268         880         224        227          561       345       303           976      209          225        440         291       4949
430-530              261         894         213        209          593       340       303          1038      209          236        439         302       5037
445-545              264         856         219        178          594       323       341          1092      235          232        449         303       5086
500-600              258         859         230        173          575       292       368          1117      242          226        465         301       5106

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                               173

                                           258        859          230                         575

                                                                                               292



                                             301

TEMPLE AVENUE                                465                              242     1117       368

                                             226                                     GRAND AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                    BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                             PERIOD                  LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415               11             5           0          2            18          400-415                         1          0           0          0           1
415-430               23             1           4          4            32          415-430                         3          1           0          0           4
430-445               14             3           0          3            20          430-445                         2          0           0          0           2
445-500               12             4           0          1            17          445-500                         1          0           0          0           1
500-515               10             3           0          3            16          500-515                         1          3           0          1           5
515-530               14            10           0          1            25          515-530                         0          1           0          0           1
530-545               10             5           0          1            16          530-545                         1          0           0          0           1
545-600               26             5           0          2            33          545-600                         1          0           0          1           2
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS             NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG         LEG                             PERIOD                  LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500               60            13           4          10           87          400-500                         7          1           0          0            8
415-515               59            11           4          11           85          415-515                         7          4           0          1           12
430-530               50            20           0           8           78          430-530                         4          4           0          1            9
445-545               46            22           0           6           74          445-545                         3          4           0          1            8
500-600               60            23           0           7           90          500-600                         3          4           0          2            9
                                                            ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                                                           3UHSDUHGE\
                                                                   1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                                         
         3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                        'D\ :('1(6'$<

               &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                      'DWH 
                                                                             $0
     16(:6WUHHWV          8QLYHUVLW\$YH            8QLYHUVLW\$YH                   :7HPSOH$YH                  :7HPSOH$YH
                            1257+%281'              6287+%281'                   ($67%281'                    :(67%281'                                          878516
                                                                                                                   
                         1/       17     15       6/        67     65             (/      (7     (5              :/      :7     :5             727$/       1%       6%            (%       :%
    /$1(6                                                                                                                                                      

           $0                                                                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                                                                  
           $0                                                                                                                                              
           $0                                                                                                                                              
           $0                                                                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                                                                  
           $0                                                                                                                                                  
           $0                                                                                                                                                 

                        1/        17  15      6/    67    65      (/    (7                              (5       :/      :7    :5    727$/                 1%       6%            (%       :%
   727$/92/80(6                                                                                                                                         
    $3352$&+
V                                               
                     QED      QEG       VED   VEG         HED   HEG                                      ZED   QEG
3($.+567$577,0(         $0                                                                                                    727$/

      3($.+592/                                                                                                     

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                         

         &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
                                                             ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                                                            3UHSDUHGE\
                                                                    1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                                          
         3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                         'D\ :('1(6'$<

               &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                       'DWH 
                                                                               30
     16(:6WUHHWV          8QLYHUVLW\$YH             8QLYHUVLW\$YH                   :7HPSOH$YH                  :7HPSOH$YH
                            1257+%281'              6287+%281'                     ($67%281'                   :(67%281'                                          878516
                                                                                                                    
                         1/       17     15       6/        67     65               (/      (7     (5             :/      :7     :5             727$/       1%       6%            (%       :%
    /$1(6                                                                                                                                                       

           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                                 
           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                                                               

                        1/       17   15      6/    67    65      (/    (7                               (5       :/      :7    :5    727$/                 1%       6%            (%       :%
   727$/92/80(6                                                                                                                                       
    $3352$&+
V                                                
                     QED     QEG        VED   VEG         HED   HEG                                       ZED   QEG
3($.+567$577,0(        30                                                                                                      727$/

      3($.+592/                                                                                                      

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                          

         &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
WILTEC                                                                                 Tel: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969     info@wiltecusa.com
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                               GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                              CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                 TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                               6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S      SOUTH CAMPUS DRIVE
                             E/W      TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                 POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2         3           4         5      6         7            8        9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH      SBLT        WBRT     WBTH    WBLT      NBRT         NBTH     NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT       TOTAL
630-645              28           1         4           6        73      1         2            0        1              1        19           10         146
645-700              82           1        12          28       198      2         2            0        0              0        29           28         382
700-715             103           4        13          48       239      4         9            7        0              0        40           50         517
715-730             174           5        27          86       310      6         4            2        4              1        58           55         732
730-745             157          18        39          73       300      3         4           10       20              0        62           38         724
745-800             177          20        30          89       276      4         4            3       18              7        81           86         795
800-815             128           9        27         105       395      3         2            5       11              7       111           64         867
815-830             122           7        20          92       294      2         4            1        3              2        81           47         675
830-845              99           3        21          91       154      4         5            5        5             15        58           56         516
845-900              90           3        27          84       207      3         3            2        9              3        79           61         571
HOUR TOTALS           1           2         3           4         5      6         7            8        9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH      SBLT        WBRT     WBTH    WBLT      NBRT         NBTH     NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT       TOTAL
630-730             387          11        56         168       820     13        17            9        5              2       146          143        1777
645-745             516          28        91         235      1047     15        19           19       24              1       189          171        2355
700-800             611          47       109         296      1125     17        21           22       42              8       241          229        2768
715-815             636          52       123         353      1281     16        14           20       53             15       312          243        3118
730-830             584          54       116         359      1265     12        14           19       52             16       335          235        3061
745-845             526          39        98         377      1119     13        15           14       37             31       331          253        2853
800-900             439          22        95         372      1050     12        14           13       28             27       329          228        2629

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                       353

                                        636          52       123                      1281

                                                                                       16



                                          243

TEMPLE AVENUE                             312                         53       20            14

                                              15                             SOUTH CAMPUS DRIVE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                            BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST     SOUTH        WEST     TOTAL            15 MIN COUNTS          NORTH        EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG      LEG          LEG                       PERIOD                 LEG          LEG         LEG         LEG
630-645                0      0       1       0        1                     630-645                         0           0           0           0            0
645-700                6      1      11      13       31                     645-700                         0           0           0           1            1
700-715               23      3      17      15       58                     700-715                         0           0           0           0            0
715-730               13      2       1       7       23                     715-730                         0           0           0           1            1
730-745               49      6      17      51     123                      730-745                         1           0           1           6            8
745-800               13      6       2      28       49                     745-800                         2           1           0           8           11
800-815               15      4      12      19       50                     800-815                         0           1           0           1            2
815-830               14      3      17      25       59                     815-830                         0           0           0           2            2
830-845               14      3       0       8       25                     830-845                         0           0           0           1            1
845-900               24      9      17      38       88                     845-900                         4           0           1           7           12
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH EAST     SOUTH WEST      TOTAL                        HOUR TOTALS            NORTH        EAST        SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG     LEG    LEG     LEG                                  PERIOD                 LEG          LEG         LEG         LEG
630-730               42      6      30      35     113                      630-730                         0           0           0           2            2
645-745               91     12      46      86     235                      645-745                         1           0           1           8           10
700-800               98     17      37     101     253                      700-800                         3           1           1          15           20
715-815               90     18      32     105     245                      715-815                         3           2           1          16           22
730-830               91     19      48     123     281                      730-830                         3           2           1          17           23
745-845               56     16      31      80     183                      745-845                         2           2           0          12           16
800-900               67     19      46      90     222                      800-900                         4           1           1          11           17
WILTEC                                                                                                    Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                  GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                 CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                    TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                  4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S         SOUTH CAMPUS DRIVE
                             E/W         TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                    POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS          1          2            3           4         5      6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT      WBTH    WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
400-415               65         10          102          47       158     11       13            6        6          10         194          62        684
415-430               75          5           76          62       160      9        8           11        8           8         199          96        717
430-445               76          8          102          76       182     10       13            8        8          13         295         102        893
445-500               74          2          134          67       164     11       16            8       10           7         305         111        909
500-515               62          9          166          73       179      8        8           19        5          16         287          86        918
515-530               84         11          128          64       149     12       11           19        6          15         229          99        827
530-545               83          8          106         123       149     10       20           13        5           7         173          76        773
545-600               76          5           74         104       194      8        6           14       16           3         175          97        772
HOUR TOTALS            1          2            3           4         5      6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH         SBLT       WBRT      WBTH    WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
400-500              290         25          414         252       664     41       50           33       32          38         993         371        3203
415-515              287         24          478         278       685     38       45           46       31          44        1086         395        3437
430-530              296         30          530         280       674     41       48           54       29          51        1116         398        3547
445-545              303         30          534         327       641     41       55           59       26          45         994         372        3427
500-600              305         33          474         364       671     38       45           65       32          41         864         358        3290

 AM PEAK HOUR:     430-530
                                                                                         280

                                           296          30       530                     674

                                                                                         41



                                             398

TEMPLE AVENUE                               1116                         29       54           48

                                                 51                             SOUTH CAMPUS DRIVE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                               BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST        SOUTH        WEST     TOTAL            15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG          LEG                       PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415               10             8         3      44       65               400-415                       1          0           0          2            3
415-430                2             9         4      30       45               415-430                       0          0           0          1            1
430-445               14             3         1      28       46               430-445                       3          0           0          5            8
445-500               12            24        10      47       93               445-500                       1          0           0          1            2
500-515                6             8         6      75       95               500-515                       1          0           0          7            8
515-530                8            12         4      35       59               515-530                       0          1           0          4            5
530-545                5             0         1      20       26               530-545                       1          3           1          2            7
545-600               10            13         7      42       72               545-600                       1          0           0          5            6
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST        SOUTH WEST      TOTAL                  HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG         LEG     LEG                            PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500               38            44        18     149     249                400-500                       5          0           0           9           14
415-515               34            44        21     180     279                415-515                       5          0           0          14           19
430-530               40            47        21     185     293                430-530                       5          1           0          17           23
445-545               31            44        21     177     273                445-545                       3          4           1          14           22
500-600               29            33        18     172     252                500-600                       3          4           1          18           26
                                 ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                              3UHSDUHGE\
                                         1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                             
         3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                     'D\ :('1(6'$<

                &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                   'DWH 
                                                                                 $0
     16(:6WUHHWV        6RXWK&DPSXV'U                6RXWK&DPSXV'U                  .HOORJJ'U               .HOORJJ'U
                            1257+%281'                6287+%281'                     ($67%281'             :(67%281'
                                                                                                                
                         1/       17     15          6/       67     65               (/      (7     (5       :/      :7     :5           727$/
    /$1(6                                                                                                 

           $0                                                                                                    
           $0                                                                                                 
           $0                                                                                              
           $0                                                                                               
           $0                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                    
           $0                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                 

                        1/       17        15         6/     67     65      (/    (7     (5    :/      :7    :5                           727$/
   727$/92/80(6                                                                                        
    $3352$&+
V                          
                     QED     QEG                 VED   VEG          HED   HEG          ZED   QEG
3($.+567$577,0(        $0                                                                                                          727$/

      3($.+592/                                                                                        

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                    

          &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
                                 ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                              3UHSDUHGE\
                                         1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                             
         3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                    'D\ :('1(6'$<

                &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                  'DWH 
                                                                                 30
     16(:6WUHHWV        6RXWK&DPSXV'U                6RXWK&DPSXV'U                  .HOORJJ'U              .HOORJJ'U
                            1257+%281'                6287+%281'                     ($67%281'             :(67%281'
                                                                                                                
                         1/       17     15          6/       67     65               (/      (7     (5       :/      :7     :5          727$/
    /$1(6                                                                                                

           30                                                                                                
           30                                                                                                  
           30                                                                                                   
           30                                                                                                   
           30                                                                                                 
           30                                                                                                 
           30                                                                                                 
           30                                                                                                 

                        1/       17        15          6/     67     65      (/     (7     (5    :/      :7    :5                        727$/
   727$/92/80(6                                                                                          
    $3352$&+
V                              
                     QED     QEG                 VED    VEG           HED   HEG          ZED   QEG
3($.+567$577,0(        30                                                                                                         727$/

      3($.+592/                                                                                         

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                   

          &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
WILTEC                                                                                           Tel: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969     info@wiltecusa.com


INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY
                                      GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
CLIENT:                               CAL POLY POMONA
PROJECT:                              WEDNESDAY APRIL 30, 2014
DATE:                                 6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM
PERIOD:                    N/S        VALLEY BOULEVARD
INTERSECTION:              E/W        KELLOGG DRIVE
                                      POMONA
CITY:

VEHICLE COU           1           2            3           4           5         6           7           8             9          10         11            12
15 MIN COUNTS    SBRT        SBTH           SBLT     WBRT        WBTH      WBLT         NBRT         NBTH       NBLT           EBRT      EBTH            EBLT     TOTAL
PERIOD             22          201             0        0           0         0            0           33          6              7         0               6       275
630-645            38          186             0        0           0         0            0           57         17              2         0               4       304
645-700            57          211             0        0           0         0            0           57         21              1         0               5       352
700-715            80          267             0        0           0         0            0           66         43              6         0               4       466
715-730           107          284             0        0           0         0            0           76         53             10         0               9       539
730-745           132          251             0        0           0         0            0           77         72              9         0              12       553
745-800            72          178             0        0           0         0            0           79         43              7         0              15       394
800-815            51          150             0        0           0         0            0           58         45              2         0               6       312
815-830            70          128             0        0           0         0            0           81         44              2         0               5       330
830-845            72          117             0        0           0         0            0           75         39              5         0               6       314
845-900             1            2             3        4           5         6            7            8          9             10        11              12
HOUR TOTALS      SBRT        SBTH           SBLT     WBRT        WBTH      WBLT         NBRT         NBTH       NBLT           EBRT      EBTH            EBLT     TOTAL
PERIOD            197          865             0        0           0         0            0          213         87             16         0              19      1397
630-730           282          948             0        0           0         0            0          256        134             19         0              22      1661
645-745           376         1013             0        0           0         0            0          276        189             26         0              30      1910
700-800           391          980             0        0           0         0            0          298        211             32         0              40      1952
715-815           362          863             0        0           0         0            0          290        213             28         0              42      1798
730-830           325          707             0        0           0         0            0          295        204             20         0              38      1589
745-845           265          573             0        0           0         0            0          293        171             16         0              32      1350
800-900
                 715-815
 AM PEAK HOUR:                                                                                   0

                                        391          980          0                              0

                                                                                                 0



                                              40

                                               0                           211         298           0
KELLOGG DRIVE
                                              32                                     VALLEY BOULEVARD



                                                                                     BICYCLE COUNTS
PEDESTRIAN NORTH           EAST       SOUTH        WEST        TOTAL                 15 MIN COUNTS           NORTH         EAST        SOUTH       WEST         TOTAL
15 MIN COUNTS LEG          LEG        LEG          LEG                               PERIOD                  LEG           LEG         LEG         LEG
PERIOD                0           0            0           1           1             630-645                           0           0           0            1           1
630-645               0           0            0           2           2             645-700                           0           0           0            0           0
645-700               0           0            0           0           0             700-715                           0           0           0            0           0
700-715               0           0            0           0           0             715-730                           0           0           0            0           0
715-730               0           0            0           0           0             730-745                           0           0           0            0           0
730-745               0           0            0           3           3             745-800                           0           0           0            0           0
745-800               0           0            0           2           2             800-815                           0           0           0            0           0
800-815               0           0            0           0           0             815-830                           0           0           0            0           0
815-830               0           0            0           0           0             830-845                           0           0           0            2           2
830-845               0           0            0           0           0             845-900                           0           0           0            0           0
845-900       NORTH        EAST       SOUTH        WEST        TOTAL                 HOUR TOTALS             NORTH         EAST        SOUTH       WEST         TOTAL
HOUR TOTALS LEG            LEG        LEG          LEG                               PERIOD                  LEG           LEG         LEG         LEG
PERIOD                0           0            0           3           3             630-730                           0           0           0            1           1
630-730               0           0            0           2           2             645-745                           0           0           0            0           0
645-745               0           0            0           3           3             700-800                           0           0           0            0           0
700-800               0           0            0           5           5             715-815                           0           0           0            0           0
715-815               0           0            0           5           5             730-830                           0           0           0            0           0
730-830               0           0            0           5           5             745-845                           0           0           0            2           2
745-845               0           0            0           2           2             800-900                           0           0           0            2           2
800-900
WILTEC                                                                                                      Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                   WEDNESDAY APRIL 30, 2014
PERIOD:                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        VALLEY BOULEVARD
                             E/W        KELLOGG DRIVE
CITY:                                   POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3          4           5          6        7          8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT       NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415              21          96           0          0           0          0        0        203       20          33          0           63       436
415-430              17          87           0          0           0          0        0        211       10          29          0           34       388
430-445              19          90           0          0           0          0        0        234       17          26          0           45       431
445-500              21          94           0          0           0          0        0        196       19          19          0           38       387
500-515              18          99           0          0           0          0        0        243       24          50          0           62       496
515-530              29         106           0          0           0          0        0        225       22          29          0           34       445
530-545              40          95           0          0           0          0        0        185       29          25          0           48       422
545-600              31          88           0          0           0          0        0        238       24          31          0           50       462
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3          4           5          6        7          8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT        WBTH       WBLT     NBRT       NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500              78         367           0          0           0          0        0        844       66         107          0          180      1642
415-515              75         370           0          0           0          0        0        884       70         124          0          179      1702
430-530              87         389           0          0           0          0        0        898       82         124          0          179      1759
445-545             108         394           0          0           0          0        0        849       94         123          0          182      1750
500-600             118         388           0          0           0          0        0        891       99         135          0          194      1825

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                             0

                                          118        388           0                         0

                                                                                             0



                                            194

KELLOGG DRIVE                                   0                            99       891        0

                                            135                                     VALLEY BOULEVARD



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS       NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                             PERIOD              LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  0          0           0          0            0           400-415                     0          0           0          3           3
415-430                  0          0           1          2            3           415-430                     1          0           0          1           2
430-445                  0          0           0          1            1           430-445                     0          0           0          1           1
445-500                  0          0           0          1            1           445-500                     0          0           0          1           1
500-515                  0          0           0          1            1           500-515                     0          0           0          2           2
515-530                  0          0           0          3            3           515-530                     0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  0          0           0          3            3           530-545                     0          0           0          0           0
545-600                  0          0           0          3            3           545-600                     0          0           0          3           3
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST        TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                             PERIOD              LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  0          0           1           4            5          400-500                     1          0           0          6           7
415-515                  0          0           1           5            6          415-515                     1          0           0          5           6
430-530                  0          0           0           6            6          430-530                     0          0           0          4           4
445-545                  0          0           0           8            8          445-545                     0          0           0          3           3
500-600                  0          0           0          10           10          500-600                     0          0           0          5           5
                                                             ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                                                          3UHSDUHGE\
                                                                    1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                                        
         3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                  'D\ :('1(6'$<

               &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                 'DWH 
                                                                             $0
     16(:6WUHHWV             9DOOH\'U                  9DOOH\'U                   :7HPSOH$YH             :7HPSOH$YH
                            1257+%281'                 6287+%281'                ($67%281'              :(67%281'                                          878516
                                                                                                             
                         1/       17     15           6/       67     65          (/      (7     (5        :/      :7     :5             727$/       1%       6%            (%       :%
    /$1(6                                                                                                                                                     

           $0                                                                                                                                    
           $0                                                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                                                   
           $0                                                                                                                                     
           $0                                                                                                                                     
           $0                                                                                                                                      
           $0                                                                                                                                      

                        1/       17          15         6/    67     65      (/    (7     (5    :/     :7                      :5    727$/           1%       6%            (%       :%
    727$/92/80(6                                                                                                                         
     $3352$&+
V                                              
                     QED     QEG                  VED   VEG          HED   HEG          ZED  QEG
3($.+567$577,0(        $0                                                                                                         727$/

      3($.+592/                                                                                       

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                   

         &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
                                                           ,QWHUVHFWLRQ7XUQLQJ0RYHPHQW
                                                                                          3UHSDUHGE\
                                                                     1DWLRQDO'DWD	6XUYH\LQJ6HUYLFHV
                                                                       
          3URMHFW,' &$BB                                                                                  'D\ :('1(6'$<

                &LW\ &LW\RI3RPRQD                                                                                 'DWH 
                                                                            30
     16(:6WUHHWV              9DOOH\'U               9DOOH\'U                     :7HPSOH$YH              :7HPSOH$YH
                             1257+%281'              6287+%281'                 ($67%281'                :(67%281'                                          878516
                                                                                                              
                          1/       17     15        6/       67     65           (/      (7     (5          :/      :7     :5             727$/       1%       6%            (%       :%
     /$1(6                                                                                                                                                     

            30                                                                                                                                     
            30                                                                                                                                   
            30                                                                                                                                   
            30                                                                                                                                   
            30                                                                                                                                   
            30                                                                                                                                   
            30                                                                                                                                  
            30                                                                                                                                  

                        1/       17           15      6/    67     65      (/    (7     (5    :/      :7    :5    727$/                               1%       6%            (%       :%
    727$/92/80(6                                                                                                                        
     $3352$&+
V                        
                     QED     QEG                VED   VEG          HED   HEG          ZED   QEG
3($.+567$577,0(        30                                                                                  727$/

       3($.+592/                                                                                     

   3($.+5)$&725                                                                                                    

          &21752/  6LJQDOL]HG
WILTEC                                                                                       Tel: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969     info@wiltecusa.com
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                 6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR 57 SOUTHBOUND OFF-RAMP
                             E/W        TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                   POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4           5        6         7           8         9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT      NBRT        NBTH      NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-645             155           6          92           0         129        1         0           0         0              5        63            0        451
645-700             250           2         107           0         206        1         0           0         0              0        70            0        636
700-715             232           2          98           0         300        1         2           0         0              1        84            0        720
715-730             256           2         104           0         356        3         1           0         0              5       109            0        836
730-745             195           2         107           0         225        0         0           0         0              2       132            0        663
745-800             130           0         175           0         189        1         0           0         1              7       132            0        635
800-815             148           0         161           0         284        7         0           0         0              8       153            0        761
815-830             173           1          93           0         211        0         1           0         0              6       116            0        601
830-845             185           0          56           0         252        1         1           0         0              4       116            0        615
845-900             192           3          79           0         250        7         1           0         0              8       138            0        678
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4           5        6         7           8         9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT      NBRT        NBTH      NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-730             893          12         401           0         991        6         3           0         0             11       326            0       2643
645-745             933           8         416           0        1087        5         3           0         0              8       395            0       2855
700-800             813           6         484           0        1070        5         3           0         1             15       457            0       2854
715-815             729           4         547           0        1054       11         1           0         1             22       526            0       2895
730-830             646           3         536           0         909        8         1           0         1             23       533            0       2660
745-845             636           1         485           0         936        9         2           0         1             25       517            0       2612
800-900             698           4         389           0         997       15         3           0         0             26       523            0       2655

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                             0

                                          729          4          547                        1054

                                                                                             11



                                                 0

TEMPLE AVENUE                               526                             1         0           1

                                                22                                 SR 57 SOUTHBOUND OFF-RAMP



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH         EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG           LEG         LEG         LEG
630-645                  0          0            0          0           0          630-645                         0           0           0          0           0
645-700                  1          0            0          0           1          645-700                         0           0           0          0           0
700-715                  0          0            0          0           0          700-715                         1           0           0          0           1
715-730                  1          0            0          2           3          715-730                         1           0           0          0           1
730-745                  0          0            0          0           0          730-745                         1           0           0          1           2
745-800                  0          0            0          0           0          745-800                         0           0           0          0           0
800-815                  0          0            0          2           2          800-815                         0           0           0          0           0
815-830                  0          0            0          0           0          815-830                         0           0           0          0           0
830-845                  0          0            0          1           1          830-845                         0           0           0          0           0
845-900                  0          0            0          2           2          845-900                         3           0           0          0           3
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH         EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG           LEG         LEG         LEG
630-730                  2          0            0          2           4          630-730                         2           0           0          0           2
645-745                  2          0            0          2           4          645-745                         3           0           0          1           4
700-800                  1          0            0          2           3          700-800                         3           0           0          1           4
715-815                  1          0            0          4           5          715-815                         2           0           0          1           3
730-830                  0          0            0          2           2          730-830                         1           0           0          1           2
745-845                  0          0            0          3           3          745-845                         0           0           0          0           0
800-900                  0          0            0          5           5          800-900                         3           0           0          0           3
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR 57 SOUTHBOUND OFF-RAMP
                             E/W        TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                   POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS          1          2           3          4            5        6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT        WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415              122          0         144          0          110        1        0            0        0          10         429           0        816
415-430              118          0         158          0          135        0        1            0        0          14         395           0        821
430-445              107          6         175          0          152        2        2            0        0          12         538           0        994
445-500              101          1         186          0          142        3        1            0        0           6         518           0        958
500-515              105          1         214          0          109        5        1            0        0           5         514           0        954
515-530              126          1         257          0          144        2        5            0        0           5         510           0       1050
530-545              134          0         232          0          103        2        2            0        0          11         410           0        894
545-600              120          0         212          0          159        1        3            0        0           7         411           0        913
HOUR TOTALS            1          2           3          4            5        6        7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT        WBTH      WBLT     NBRT         NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500              448          7         663          0          539        6        4            0        0          42        1880           0       3589
415-515              431          8         733          0          538       10        5            0        0          37        1965           0       3727
430-530              439          9         832          0          547       12        9            0        0          28        2080           0       3956
445-545              466          3         889          0          498       12        9            0        0          27        1952           0       3856
500-600              485          2         915          0          515       10       11            0        0          28        1845           0       3811

 AM PEAK HOUR:     430-530
                                                                                            0

                                          439          9          832                       547

                                                                                            12



                                                0

TEMPLE AVENUE                              2080                             0         0           9

                                                28                                 SR 57 SOUTHBOUND OFF-RAMP



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS         NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  1          0           0           0           1          400-415                       0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  0          0           0           0           0          415-430                       0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          0           0           0           0          430-445                       0          0           0          0           0
445-500                  0          0           0           0           0          445-500                       0          0           0          0           0
500-515                  0          0           0           0           0          500-515                       0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           0           0           0          515-530                       0          0           0          0           0
530-545                  2          0           0           0           2          530-545                       0          0           0          0           0
545-600                  0          0           0           0           0          545-600                       0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS           NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD                LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  1          0           0           0           1          400-500                       0          0           0          0           0
415-515                  0          0           0           0           0          415-515                       0          0           0          0           0
430-530                  0          0           0           0           0          430-530                       0          0           0          0           0
445-545                  2          0           0           0           2          445-545                       0          0           0          0           0
500-600                  2          0           0           0           2          500-600                       0          0           0          0           0
WILTEC                                                                                       Tel: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969     info@wiltecusa.com
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                 6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR 57 NORTHBOUND OFF-RAMP
                             E/W        TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                   POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4           5        6         7          8          9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT      NBRT       NBTH       NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-645               0           0           0           0         226        0        37          0         46              0       107            0        416
645-700               0           0           0           0         326        0        46          0         78              0       125            0        575
700-715               0           0           0           0         354        0        44          0         94              0       124            0        616
715-730               0           0           0           0         500        0        61          0        137              0       134            0        832
730-745               0           0           0           0         386        0        82          0        101              0       157            0        726
745-800               0           0           0           0         322        0        76          0         74              0       180            0        652
800-815               0           0           0           0         372        0        62          0         54              0       209            0        697
815-830               0           0           0           0         344        0        53          0        107              0       138            0        642
830-845               0           0           0           0         323        0        41          0        101              0       111            0        576
845-900               0           0           0           0         316        0        57          0        113              0       120            0        606
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4           5        6         7          8          9             10        11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT      NBRT       NBTH       NBLT           EBRT      EBTH         EBLT      TOTAL
630-730               0           0           0           0        1406        0       188          0        355              0       490            0       2439
645-745               0           0           0           0        1566        0       233          0        410              0       540            0       2749
700-800               0           0           0           0        1562        0       263          0        406              0       595            0       2826
715-815               0           0           0           0        1580        0       281          0        366              0       680            0       2907
730-830               0           0           0           0        1424        0       273          0        336              0       684            0       2717
745-845               0           0           0           0        1361        0       232          0        336              0       638            0       2567
800-900               0           0           0           0        1355        0       213          0        375              0       578            0       2521

 AM PEAK HOUR:     715-815
                                                                                             0

                                           0           0           0                         1580

                                                                                             0



                                                 0

TEMPLE AVENUE                                  680                          366       0          281

                                                 0                                 SR 57 NORTHBOUND OFF-RAMP



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                  BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH          EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG            LEG         LEG         LEG
630-645                  0          0            0          0           0          630-645                         0           0           0          0           0
645-700                  0          0            0          0           0          645-700                         0           0           0          0           0
700-715                  0          0            0          0           0          700-715                         0           0           0          0           0
715-730                  0          0            0          0           0          715-730                         0           0           0          0           0
730-745                  0          0            0          0           0          730-745                         0           0           0          0           0
745-800                  0          0            0          0           0          745-800                         0           0           0          0           0
800-815                  0          0            0          0           0          800-815                         0           0           0          0           0
815-830                  0          0            0          0           0          815-830                         0           0           0          0           0
830-845                  0          0            0          0           0          830-845                         0           0           0          0           0
845-900                  0          0            0          0           0          845-900                         0           0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS          NORTH          EAST        SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG            LEG         LEG         LEG
630-730                  0          0            0          0           0          630-730                         0           0           0          0           0
645-745                  0          0            0          0           0          645-745                         0           0           0          0           0
700-800                  0          0            0          0           0          700-800                         0           0           0          0           0
715-815                  0          0            0          0           0          715-815                         0           0           0          0           0
730-830                  0          0            0          0           0          730-830                         0           0           0          0           0
745-845                  0          0            0          0           0          745-845                         0           0           0          0           0
800-900                  0          0            0          0           0          800-900                         0           0           0          0           0
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 GIBSON TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT:                                CAL POLY POMONA
DATE:                                   TUESDAY MARCH 11, 2014
PERIOD:                                 4:00 PM TO 6:00 PM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        SR 57 NORTHBOUND OFF-RAMP
                             E/W        TEMPLE AVENUE
CITY:                                   POMONA

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2          3          4            5        6         7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT       WBRT        WBTH      WBLT     NBRT          NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-415               0           0          0          0          215        0        51            0       36           0         305           0       607
415-430               0           0          0          0          195        0        52            0       47           0         335           0       629
430-445               0           0          0          0          238        0        53            0       36           0         386           0       713
445-500               0           0          0          0          212        0        60            0       40           0         405           0       717
500-515               0           0          0          0          231        0        53            0       33           0         432           0       749
515-530               0           0          0          0          208        0        66            0       33           0         500           0       807
530-545               0           0          0          0          227        0        58            0       37           0         480           0       802
545-600               0           0          0          0          234        0        63            0       33           0         454           0       784
HOUR TOTALS           1           2          3          4            5        6         7            8        9          10          11          12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH       SBLT       WBRT        WBTH      WBLT     NBRT          NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
400-500               0           0          0          0          860        0       216            0      159           0        1431           0       2666
415-515               0           0          0          0          876        0       218            0      156           0        1558           0       2808
430-530               0           0          0          0          889        0       232            0      142           0        1723           0       2986
445-545               0           0          0          0          878        0       237            0      143           0        1817           0       3075
500-600               0           0          0          0          900        0       240            0      136           0        1866           0       3142

 AM PEAK HOUR:     500-600
                                                                                            0

                                           0          0           0                         900

                                                                                            0



                                                0

TEMPLE AVENUE                              1866                            136       0          240

                                                0                                 SR 57 NORTHBOUND OFF-RAMP



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD                 LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-415                  0          0           1          0           1          400-415                        0          0           0          0           0
415-430                  0          0           1          0           1          415-430                        0          0           0          0           0
430-445                  0          0           1          0           1          430-445                        0          0           0          0           0
445-500                  0          0           0          0           0          445-500                        0          0           0          0           0
500-515                  0          0           0          0           0          500-515                        0          0           0          0           0
515-530                  0          0           1          0           1          515-530                        0          0           1          0           1
530-545                  0          0           1          0           1          530-545                        0          0           1          0           1
545-600                  0          0           1          0           1          545-600                        0          0           0          0           0
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS            NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG                           PERIOD                 LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
400-500                  0          0           3          0           3          400-500                        0          0           0          0           0
415-515                  0          0           2          0           2          415-515                        0          0           0          0           0
430-530                  0          0           2          0           2          430-530                        0          0           1          0           1
445-545                  0          0           2          0           2          445-545                        0          0           2          0           2
500-600                  0          0           3          0           3          500-600                        0          0           2          0           2
