                                           425 MARKET STREET          MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP

                                           SAN FRANCISCO              NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO,
                                                                      LOS ANGELES, PALO ALTO,
                                           CALIFORNIA 94105-2482      SACRAMENTO, SAN DIEGO,
                                                                      DENVER, NORTHERN VIRGINIA,
                                           TELEPHONE: 415.268.7000    WASHINGTON, D.C.

                                           FACSIMILE: 415.268.7522    TOKYO, LONDON, BRUSSELS,
                                                                      BEIJING, SHANGHAI, HONG KONG,
                                           WWW.MOFO.COM               SINGAPORE




May 16, 2013                                                          Writer's Direct Contact
                                                                      415.268.6523
                                                                      MImwalle@mofo.com



Via Overnight Mail and E-Mail

Aubrey Rose
Planner II
Oakland Planning Department
250 Frank Ogawa Plaza, 2nd Floor
Oakland, CA 94612

Re:      Application REV 120004 ­ 6100 Broadway (College Preparatory School)


Dear Mr. Rose:

I am writing on behalf of the College Preparatory School ("College Prep") in response to the
appeal ("Appeal") filed by a few neighbors of the City's approval of an amendment to the
school's Conditional Use Permit ("CUP") to increase enrollment from 340 students to 375
students.

As with many schools in Oakland, College Prep is located within a residential neighborhood
and operates pursuant to a CUP. College Prep has always recognized that its obligations to
its neighbors go much beyond conditions written into its CUP and it has consistently sought
to act in a manner that allows it to co-exist in a harmonious and productive manner among its
neighbors. To that end, the school has long gone above and beyond what is required in the
CUP to minimize impacts of school activities. It is apparent that most neighbors recognize
that fact, which is why the majority of the neighborhood has expressed no objection to the
City's approval of a moderate increase in enrollment.

             1. College Prep's request for increased enrollment will improve the quality
                of the school without impacting the neighborhood

Before addressing the specific allegations in the Appeal, it is important to reiterate the
purpose of the school's request to increase enrollment to 375. Contrary to what may be
claimed, the school arrived at this number through a careful curriculum based analysis of the
optimal school size with the goal of providing the best education possible. This analysis
included such factors as the school mission, student-teacher ratios, course and elective
offerings, physical space requirements, extracurricular programming, and market demand.


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Two


The economics of the school are not the primary driver behind the request. College Prep
delivers the premium high school education in the Bay Area, and does so in Oakland. It has
achieved that distinction through constantly reviewing and revisiting the core school
parameters described above. College Prep believes that an enrollment of up to 375 students
will allow it to continue to deliver this premiere education based on a sustainable
commitment to attract and serve a highly qualified faculty and student body. The school did
not arrive at the request for an enrollment cap of 375 lightly.

The neighbors make much of the fact that just a few years ago the school committed to a
"hard cap" of 340, which according to them means that any new request for an enrollment
increase must be in bad faith and part of a devious plan to add students incrementally.
College Prep has always acted in good faith and there is no broken "deal." To the contrary,
in 2009, when the neighbors asked if College Prep would provide long-term assurance that it
would not seek an increase above 340, the school responded that it could not bind future
school leaders or handicap the future of the school. The fact of the matter is that after
College Prep obtained its CUP in 2009, it underwent a change in leadership, including a new
Head of School, and as a part of that transition, many aspects of the school were looked at
with fresh eyes, including its size. The most recent request is simply the result of that
analysis, nothing more. If the school knew in 2008 when it applied for its prior CUP that 375
or 400 or some other number was the optimal size, it would have applied for that number at
that time. The fact that it is seeking that increase now is not evidence of previously acting in
bad faith or the breach of some prior deal.

It should also be stated again that the facilities included in the new Master Plan approved in
2009 were curriculum driven and were not done to create additional capacity. Statements to
that effect were made in 2009 and they remain true today. With the addition of facilities
completed in 2011, College Prep has been able to offer world language and history classes in
larger and more sound-proofed classrooms. The school has also been able to replace two of
the original portable classrooms that the school had purchased from Oakland Unified School
district in 1980 that were considerably outdated. These changes enhanced rather than
expanded its program. The decision to seek a moderate enrollment increase was made
independent of the Master Plan approvals.

The Appeal is based primarily on claims that the increased enrollment will cause
unacceptable traffic conditions. College Prep is proud of the significant steps it has taken to
minimize school traffic and to virtually eliminate school related parking in the neighborhood.
A core value of College Prep is sustainability and it infuses sustainable values into all its
decision-making, from how the school is managed to its facilities (a rooftop solar energy
system supplies a portion of the school's electricity needs). This mission also extends to how
students and faculty commute to school. As traffic studies have repeatedly shown, the
school's success in promoting alternate modes of transportation and ameliorating traffic



sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Three


speaks for itself. In the past few years, College Prep has successfully implemented the
following:

         ·   Modified Broadway entrance and campus driveway to include vehicular flow and
             improved pedestrian safety.

         ·   Converted existing gates on Eustice and Broadway to be emergency-only exits.

         ·   Increased the occupancy requirement for student on-campus parking from two to
             three passengers.

         ·   Expanded shuttle service to Rockridge BART, running shuttles until after 5:15
             p.m. with later transportation alternatives provided to students, thus ensuring that
             students with after school activities have access to BART.

         ·   Installed additional bike-racks to accommodate increased bike-ridership, and
             actively promoted this mode of transportation through initiatives such as "Ride
             Your Bike to School" days.

         ·   When the school hosts special events such as "Back to School Day" or
             Graduation, the school secures off-site parking and shuttle service is provided.

College Prep is proud of those efforts and of its students for taking them seriously, and it
should be: analysis prepared by Nelson/Nygaard shows that even though the school's
enrollment increased from 355 to 372 ­ approximately the same level it is now requesting in
the amendment ­ the amount of traffic actually decreased. Very recent traffic counts
conducted in April 2013 by Nelson/Nygaard again confirm that the school's alternative
transportation efforts continue to pay off. This track record demonstrates that the school has
the capability to be a good neighbor, even when operating at the enrollment level now
sought.

During the CUP amendment application process, College Prep worked extensively with the
Planning Department to address any concerns. This included seeking confirmation from City
officials that all current conditions were being met and updating the traffic study. The school
also reached out to the neighbors about its intent to seek the CUP modification and heard no
opposition, other than from the Appellants. Since the filing of the appeal, the school again
reached out to all neighbors (not just the Appellants) and held an open house meeting to
discuss neighborhood concerns. Again, the school heard no complaints, other than from the
three Appellants. The CUP amendment approval was well vetted and the required findings
were well supported and as such, the Appeal should be denied. The remainder of the letter
specifically addresses each point raised by Appellants.



sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Four


             2. Responses to issues raised in January 10, 2013 letter from Leila
                Moncharsh

                    a. The evidence supports the finding that an enrollment of 375
                       students at College Prep is compatible with the surrounding
                       neighborhood.

The Appeal asserts that the findings required by Oakland Municipal Code Section
17.134.050 (generally requiring that the City find that the development is compatible with
the surrounding neighborhood) are not supported by the evidence. Appellants allege that
increased enrollment will cause traffic impacts, that the new conditions of approval are
"illusory," and that there should be conditions addressing amplification equipment used on
campus. While each issue is addressed individually below, the Appeal generally misses the
mark on what the Conditional Use Permit findings require. Appellants fail to recognize that
the school already exists in the residential neighborhood. In this instance, the City need only
find that the increased enrollment at issue is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood;
the City can and should assume that the school as it currently exists is compatible with the
neighborhood. Appellants have offered no evidence that a moderate increase in enrollment
will cause a presumptively compatible use to become incompatible. To the contrary,
evidence in the record supports the finding that the school, as conditioned under the CUP, is
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.

                           i. Traffic will not adversely impact the neighborhood

The heart of the Appeal is that increased enrollment will worsen traffic impacts on the
neighborhood. The Appeal attacks various findings in the traffic report prepared by
Nelson/Nygaard in support of the CUP amendment application. The Appeal also references
a short email from a traffic engineer that Appellants claim undermines the traffic analysis.
Bonnie Nelson from Nelson/Nygaard prepared two letters firmly responding to and rebutting
all statements regarding traffic both in the Appeal and from the traffic engineer. Letter from
Bonnie Nelson to Jane Carney, February 28, 2013, attached as Exhibit A; Letter from Bonnie
Nelson to Jane Carney, April 30, 2013, attached as Exhibit B. Ms. Nelson's letter show that
the claims made in the Appeal are either misleading or inaccurate and that, contrary to the
claims made in the Appeal, traffic will not cause any significant impacts. Ms. Nelson's
letters clearly establish substantial evidence supporting a finding that the school can be a
"compatible" neighbor when operating at an enrollment of 375 students. Indeed, Ms. Nelson
writes that her analysis and studies show that "the school can meet its enrollment target
without increasing auto traffic at all."

While the existing data and analysis supports the City's approval of the CUP amendment, to
fully respond to concerns about traffic and to be sure that the City has up to date information,
Nelson/Nygaard prepared an updated traffic study, based on new traffic counts conducted on


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Five


May 1, 2013. 2013 College Prep Traffic Counts, Bonnie Nelson & Colin Burgett (May 10,
2013), attached as Exhibit C. With these latest traffic counts, Nelson/Nygaard has traffic
data from three different years (2008, 2010, and 2013) and has been able to re-confirm that
College Prep's efforts to minimize traffic are paying off and that the school is not causing,
and will not cause, significant traffic impacts. Key findings from the recent study are as
follows:

    ·    Between 2008 and 2013, there has been a 20 percent reduction in the number of
         vehicles arriving during the morning peak hour

    ·    Inbound traffic is more dispersed, meaning the "peak of the peak" is less congested

    ·    The school continues to generate a lower rate of vehicle trips than the rate of 1.17
         vehicle trips per student during the AM Peak Hour that was used to evaluate traffic
         impacts as described in the 2012 Traffic Study, meaning that the actual impacts are
         likely less significant than identified in that study.

This latest study confirms that College Prep is able to effectively manage traffic and
implement a successful TDM program such that traffic impacts to the neighbors are
minimized.

                           ii. The Conditions of Approval ensure that the School will be
                               compatible with the neighborhood

The Appeal takes issue with the portion of the City's finding that the CUP's "new
conditions" will minimize impacts, claiming such conditions are "illusory." College Prep
certainly does not view these new ­ or any ­ conditions as "illusory." Again, the school
takes its obligations under the CUP very seriously. This can be illustrated by how the school
responded to the requirement in the 2009 CUP to develop and implement a Transportation
Demand Management plan. Although that condition is arguably as "vague" as the conditions
Appellants now attack, College Prep acted by going above and beyond what was required,
hiring a highly respected traffic consultant who prepared a comprehensive and robust plan.
College Prep has gone on to implement ­ indeed, embrace ­ the TDM plan and today traffic
has dropped and parking on Eustice and Brookside has all but ceased.

Appellant's assertion seems to be that parents will not obey new "Keep Clear" signage or
that College Prep will not carry out the clear direction in Condition 16 to direct traffic and
inform parents of drop-off/pick-up procedures. The school has shown that it carries out the
letter and intent of the City's conditions and will do so again with these newest conditions.
They are not "illusory."




sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Six


                         iii. The increased enrollment will have no impact on the use of
                              sound equipment

Appellants seem to allege that the increased enrollment permitted by the CUP will result in
increased use of sound equipment and thus increased noise impacts on the neighborhood. To
the contrary, the addition of these students will have no impact on the use of sound
amplification. The school uses sound amplification in limited circumstances, including for
ten minutes during bi-weekly mid-morning assemblies, emergency drills and the occasional
special event, for which the school obtains noise permits. The frequency of those events
would be the same whether the school population is 325, 340 or 375. Finally, it should be
noted that Condition 33 in the 2009 CUP addresses noise from school operations. There is
no need for anything new or different.

                  b. The City's finding that the existing campus can accommodate an
                     enrollment of 375 is supported by the evidence

Appellants take issue with Finding "B" relating to the appropriateness of the campus to
accommodate a study body of 375 students, citing to the same concerns about traffic and
noise. For the reasons cited above, particularly the reports from Nelson/Nygaard, Appellants
claims are without merit. Further, as the City points out, the CUP amendment does not
propose any physical modifications to the site and the existing campus has adequate capacity
to operate at 375 students. The school has operated at this location for over 30 years and has
generally had no conflict with most residential neighbors during that time. There is no
evidence to suggest that a moderate increase will change that relationship.

                  c. A moderate enrollment increase will allow College Prep to
                     continue to serve the larger Oakland community by providing a
                     high quality high school education

Appellants level an attack on College Prep for being an independent school and that this fact
alone allegedly means the school cannot provide an essential service to the community.
Appellants' attack is completely baseless and should be ignored.

College Prep is an asset to Oakland and the surrounding communities. 120, or one-third, of
the school's 359 current students live in Oakland. College Prep has a strong financial aid
program. It awarded $1.95 million in financial aid to deserving students this year and 50
percent of these dollars went to Oakland residents. Next year's financial aid budget is
approved at $2.16 million.

College Prep is proud of the national recognition the school has earned as an educational
leader, and equally proud to be a member of the Oakland community. The school founded
and continues to be the home of Partners, a twenty-five year old program that presently


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Seven


provides summer and school-year services to 265 low-income Oakland middle schoolers.
The school has also sustained service oriented relationships with many local schools and
organizations, including Chabot Elementary School, Chaperall House Elderly Home, Frog
Park, and North Oakland Little League, to name only a few. The evidence supports the
City's finding that the school will continue to serve and enhance the surrounding community.

                   d. The increased enrollment conforms with the General Plan and
                      Zoning

In Finding "E," the City correctly found that the CUP amendment for the modest enrollment
increase is consistent with the General Plan. As the City notes, the General Plan designation
for the school is "Detached Unit Residential," which permits "appropriate allowances for
schools and other small scale civic institutions." As this plainly shows, the use of a school
conforms with the General Plan. The only question is whether the modest increase in
enrollment is still within the "appropriate allowance for schools." As discussed above,
College Prep has long co-existed with its residential neighbors and it recently has undertaken
extensive efforts to minimize impacts. These efforts have resulted in reduced traffic and a
virtual elimination of parking intrusion into the neighborhood. A modest increase in
enrollment will not take the existing presumptively "appropriate allowance" and cause it to
become excessive. Again, College Prep remains committed to continuing to work with the
neighbors to address their concerns.

Appellants argue that increasing the enrollment cap would be inconsistent with the General
Plan because this might impact home values. This claim, too, is meritless and lacks any
evidence. Appellants essentially argue that property values may go down because the
neighbors cannot be assured that the school will not seek future amendments to its CUP.
However, every property owner has the right to use his or her land in a manner that is
consistent with existing land use policies, which always includes the right to seek
amendments through the City's normal procedures. College Prep's request for an enrollment
increase is no different and it will have no impact on home values.

                   e. Appellant's Equal Protection arguments are baseless

Appellants make a convoluted argument that granting the requested CUP amendment would
somehow create an Equal Protection claim for future schools that seek similar amendments.
Appellants claim that under recent case law, when there is no set procedure for a particular
type of approval and an individual is treated differently from others who have previously
been granted the same approval, that action can form the basis of an Equal Protection claim.
They then assert that because there is no procedure for what they characterize as the City's
act of "legalizing" existing conditions, if College Prep's request is approved, future schools
may claim a right to the same result and raise an Equal Protection claim if they are denied.
Appellants' tortuous claim is flawed for many reasons.


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Eight


Appellants mischaracterize the action by the City as a mysterious approval they dub a
"legalization," an action they claim is not contemplated in the Planning Code. College
Prep's request, however, is for a routine amendment to its existing CUP. The Oakland
Planning Code sets out clear procedures for CUP amendments, including the decision
making body, required findings, and the appeals process. The City has carefully followed
those procedures, including making all findings based on substantial evidence. Appellants
are well aware of those procedures as they have followed them when filing their Appeal and
have cited to code provisions when challenging City findings. The current situation has no
relationship to that in Gerhart v. Lake County where there were "no rules, regulations, laws,
or ordinances that exist...putting property owners on notice that the County's permit process
exists." Here, any school that wishes to modify its existing enrollment cap knows exactly
what findings the City must make and the process for seeking the amendment.

Further, there has been no permit violation. When school enrollment unexpectedly spiked in
the 2010-2011 school year, Tim Durham, one of the Appellants, filed a complaint with the
City alleging that the increase violated the CUP and requested a revocation hearing. The
City rejected the request for a hearing, finding that under the CUP, the school had until
December 13, 2012 to bring enrollment to 340 and there could be no violation until that date.
Letter from Scott Miller, Zoning Manager, December 20, 2010. Subsequently, in January
2012, the school applied for a CUP amendment to increase enrollment and the City granted
that request in December 20, 2012. If there was any non-compliance, that existed for all of
one week and during that week, the school was actively seeking an amendment.

                  f. The City's decision in no way violates Appellants' constitutional
                     rights

In their final claim, Appellants stretch the bounds of constitutional law even further by
claiming that their due process rights were violated because there was no "legalization"
procedure. As described above, there was a clear procedure and the City followed it. The
City's action was based on evidence in the record and it made findings required by the
Planning Code. Appellants have since exercised their due process rights and appealed that
decision. There has been no due process violation.

Finally, Appellants seem to allege that the City should have used their enforcement authority
under Planning Code section 17.152.010 et seq. and that failure to do so somehow violated
the neighbors' Equal Protection rights. But there was no violation so no enforcement action
was needed. Further, the Planning Code sets out a procedure for the neighbors to file a
formal complaint, something one of the neighbors actually did in 2010, but was rejected. If
the neighbors believe that there have been more recent violations, they could have filed
another complaint.




sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Nine


             3. Responses to issues raised in March 19, 2012 letter from Leila Moncharsh

In her January 10, 2013 letter, Ms. Moncharsh incorporates by reference her prior March 19,
2012 letter. This section responds to various claims made in that letter.

                   a. Appellants Have Not Demonstrated that There are "Unusual
                      Circumstances" Precluding the Use of an Exemption

Appellants argue that the three categorical exemptions relied on by the City are inapplicable
because the increased enrollment will cause a significant impact, citing to the Berkeley
Hillside Preservation case. Berkeley Hillside Preservation, however, has been appealed to
the California Supreme Court so is not binding precedent and does not define the standard of
review. Most courts recognize that the "unusual circumstances" exemption is a two part test
that looks at (1) whether there are "unusual circumstances," and (2) whether it is reasonably
possible that those unusual circumstances could cause a significant effect on the
environment. See e.g., Banker's Hill, Hillcrest, Park West community Preservation Group v.
City of San Diego, 139 Cal. App. 4th 249, 278 (2006). Both prongs of the test must be
satisfied to demonstrate the unusual circumstances exception. Contrary to Appellants'
claims, it is not the current state of the law that evidence of a significant impact is itself the
unusual circumstance.

Appellants fail to identify any credible "unusual circumstances" with respect to the modest
enrollment increase. Common to all high schools is a strict start time for school, meaning
that most students and faculty arrive at approximately the same time, resulting in an increase
in traffic during the morning commute hour. Also common is for parents to drop off
students. Finally, many schools are located within a residential neighborhood. If the mere
fact that a school causes traffic during the morning peak hour were sufficient to create an
"unusual circumstance," then most enrollment increases would not qualify for the exemption.

Appellants allege six unusual circumstances, none of which are availing:

        a.       Appellants claim that the topography is unusual, "allowing amplified sound to
travel from the school at greater than normal levels," but they fail to provide any evidence.
Even if that is true, as explained above, the minor increase in enrollment will have no impact
on the volume or frequency of amplified sound.

        b.      Appellants allege that the narrow roads do not easily allow passing. While
streets within the neighborhood may be narrow, as Nelson/Nygaard recently documented,
drop offs occur mostly within the parking lot, although a few students are dropped off on
Broadway. Broadway is not a narrow or winding road. While there had been issues with
students parking on Brookside in the past, that has been fully addressed and that practice has
effectively ceased.


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Ten


      c.      Appellants allege that the already narrow roads become "dangerously further
narrowed" with illegally parked cars. This is really a repeat of the prior point and, again, is
unconvincing, particularly now that student parking on Brookside has ceased.

        d.     Appellants point to the "blind turns" that add to the dangerousness. This too
is the same point as the prior two.

        e.     Stretching further, Appellants cite to the unique canyon topography as causing
the neighbors to "view industrial appearing rooftops." The CUP amendment would only
increase the number of students and would have no impact on views so this point is a red
herring.

        f.     Finally, Appellants claim that the CUP amendment violates the General Plan,
which in turn constitutes an "unusual circumstance." However, Appellants fail to specify
any single General Plan violation and the City has found that the CUP amendment is
consistent with the General Plan, so this too must fail.

Even if there are "unusual circumstances," there is not a reasonable possibility that such
circumstances could themselves cause a significant impact. As discussed above, multiple
traffic studies conducted by Nelson/Nygaard, including traffic counts conducted as recently
as May 2013, confirm that traffic generated by the school has not had, and will not have, a
significant impact on traffic operations. This included a traffic study when the school
enrollment was at 372 students, effectively the same as what is currently being requested in
the CUP amendment. As Nelson/Nygaard has documented, school generated traffic does not
create significant impacts and the school's ongoing efforts to reduce traffic have been
successful. While there certainly may be a morning rush as students and teachers arrive for
class, no objective evidence (let alone substantial evidence) has been provided that shows a
significant impact. As a result, the "unusual circumstances" exception to categorical
exemptions is inapplicable.

                   b. The Categorical Exemptions Relied on by the City Are
                      Appropriate

The City cited to three exemptions in its approval. Courts have upheld the use of multiple
exemptions supporting a single action. Surfrider Foundation v. California Coastal
Commission, 26 Cal. App. 4th 151(1994). The City's action was done in full compliance
with CEQA and no further environmental review is required.

The primary exemption the City relied on is known as the "Class 14" exemption, which
applies to minor additions to schools where the student capacity does not increase by more
than 25%. Here, College Prep is requesting an increase of 35 students, or approximately a
10% increase. Appellants make much of the alleged "successive" increases, but even if the


sf-3282490
Aubrey Rose
May 16, 2013
Page Eleven


enrollment cap that existed prior to the 2009 CUP amendment is used as the "baseline," the
change from 325 1 to 375 would be a 15% increase, still well within the 25% limit.
Appellants apparently recognize this and do not dispute that the CUP amendment fits within
this category.

Instead, Appellants argue that CEQA Guideline 15300.2(b) precludes the exemption due to
the cumulative impacts of the school's long range master plan and all enrollment increases
since 1980. This argument fails for the same reason as the "unusual circumstances" claim
addressed above: there are no significant impacts. Again, the analysis prepared by
Nelson/Nygaard demonstrates that traffic in the neighborhood operates at an acceptable
level, even after accounting for what Appellants characterize as "successive" enrollment
increases. Nelson/Nygaard analyzed the traffic when enrollment was at 372 ­ essentially the
same level now being sought ­ and did not identify significant impacts. That is, even after
all enrollment increases since 1980, traffic operates acceptably. Thus, because the CUP
amendment plainly meets the Class 14 requirements and no significant impacts result
(whether considered at a project level or cumulatively), it is appropriate for the City to rely
on the exemption.

The City's citation to the additional exemptions ­ Guideline 15301 and Guideline 15183 ­
recognizes the facts that the CUP amendment is a minor modification to an existing facility
and that the CUP is consistent with the City's General Plan which had been subject to
previous environmental review. Appellants point out that Guideline 15301 only applies if
there is negligible or no expansion of an existing use, but fail to recognize that the school has
operated at approximately the level requested, so any expansion can be seen as negligible.
As for Guideline 15183, Appellants point to a series of policies pertaining to avoiding single
occupancy vehicles, policies that College Prep strongly supports, as seen by its successful
Traffic Demand Management program. College Prep meets each of the policies cited to by
Appellants.
                                            ****
Thank you and the City for your valued consideration of this matter. For the reasons stated
above, we respectfully request that you deny the appeal and uphold the approval of the CUP.

Sincerely,




Miles H. Imwalle

1
 Appellants incorrectly state that the 2009 amendment increased the enrollment cap from 250 to 340. To the
contrary, the enrollment cap prior to 2009 was 325 students.


sf-3282490
Exhibit A
February 28, 2013


Jane H. Carney
Chief Financial Officer
The College Preparatory School
6100 Broadway, Oakland CA 94611


Re: Traffic Impacts (Appeal of City of Oakland administrative decision to increase
maximum enrollment from 340 to 375 students)
Dear Jane,
We received the Appellant's Letter dated January 10, 2013, prepared by the law firm of Venuruso
& Moncharsch. This letter summarizes our input concerning the comments focusing on traffic
impacts contained on Pages 1 to 5 of the Appellant's Letter. Please note that while this letter
responds to the points in the appeal letter, the appellants did not submit their traffic engineer's
report, and therefore we are unable to respond to or review their analysis.


General Comments on Appellant's Letter
    1.   The City's decision in this matter, in considering the potential traffic impacts
         resulting from the School's application, is to be based on the potential effect
         of 35 additional students. The Appellant letter, however, generally avoids describing
         the Proposed Project in those terms. Instead, the Appellant primarily focuses the appeal
         discussion on total enrollment and traffic, rather than on the proposed increase in
         enrollment (and resulting increase in traffic) that is the subject of the current permit
         application and associated College Prep Traffic Study (The College Preparatory School
         Traffic School, prepared by Nelson\Nygaard on August 9, 2012).
    2. The Appellant does not argue that "Significant Transportation Impacts"
       would result from the Proposed Project. Instead, the Appellant argues that
       the Proposed Project (i.e., proposed increase in maximum enrollment of 35
       students) would "present a harmful effect on neighborhood character" (Page
       1 of Appellant's Letter). In taking this approach (focusing on a potentially subjective
       interpretation of "neighborhood character"), it is relevant to note that the Appellant is not
       disagreeing with the findings of the College Prep Traffic Study. Instead, the Appellant is
       seeking to direct the discussion of potential traffic impacts to focus on a more subjective
       evaluation (i.e., based on perceptions of "neighborhood character") that differs from the
       City's transportation impact criteria.
    3. The Appellant does not specify how the addition of 35 students would result
       in a "harmful effect on neighborhood character". Instead, the Appellant's
       description of "Traffic Impacts" focuses nearly entirely on describing
       existing enrollment and existing traffic conditions adjacent to the Project
       site. In choosing to focus on existing site characteristics, the Appellant is essentially
       describing key components of the existing neighborhood character. Given that
       description, it seems potentially contradictory for the Appellant to argue that the

116 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET, SUITE 500          SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105         415-284-1544       FAX
                                          415-284-1554

                                    www.nelsonnygaard.com
                     RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  College Preparatory School



        proposed addition of 35 students would result in a "harmful effect" on that existing
        character.


Responses to Specific Comments
    A. Appellant Traffic Comment, Page 1 (final paragraph of page): "In 2009, when
       CPS agreed to limit its enrollment to a "hard cap" of 340 students, reducing it from 355,
       there already were serious traffic problems. The number of students arriving at the
       school greatly exceeded the capacity one multi-road intersection closest to the one
       driveway into the school."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The comment is incorrect in alleging that traffic volume exceeds
capacity today (or in 2009) at the "adjacent multi-road intersection". The "adjacent multi-road
intersection" referred to by the Appellant is the intersection of Broadway with Brookside Avenue
and the SR-24 Eastbound Off-Ramp. The capacity of that intersection is, contrary to the
Appellant's comment, actually higher than the current volume of traffic, and will remain so with
the proposed increase in enrollment. Perceptions of that intersection's capacity are likely based
on the "LOS F" operations for side-street stop-sign controlled approaches (i.e., the side-street
approach from Brookside southbound, approaching Broadway, and the side-street approach
southbound approaching the SR-24 Eastbound On-Ramp); however, that LOS calculation is not a
function of capacity. In fact, the side-street volumes are very low (thus not warranting
signalization); for that reason, those intersections are not currently signalized. Instead, the LOS
"F" finding simply reflects the delay to low-volume approaches at these unsignalized (i.e., side-
street stop-sign controlled) intersections. If the side-street approach volumes were higher, then
the City would likely install traffic signals. (In fact, the School has requested signalization of this
intersection in the past, but that request was not supported by the City, presumably due to the
very-low side-street approach volumes that did not warrant signalization).


    B. Appellant Traffic Comment, Page 2, bullet point 1: "The only ingress and egress
       for the school is a single driveway located at a challenging intersection that includes
       Broadway, Brookside Avenue, and the State Route (SR) 24 on-ramp."
Nelson\Nygaard response: While it is true that there is only one access driveway at the
school, this is not an uncommon condition for parking lot entry and is an existing condition that
is not impacted by the Proposed Project. The Appellant does not specify how the proposed
increase of 35 additional students would result in a significant transportation impact, nor does
the Appellant specify how 35 additional students would result in a "harmful effect on
neighborhood character".


    C. Appellant Traffic Comment, Page 2, bullet point 2: "The traffic safety thresholds
       for CEQA purposes includes analyzing whether the project will expose motorists,
       pedestrians, bus riders and bicyclists to transportation hazards due to new or existing
       physical design features or incompatible uses. The design of the existing complicated
       intersection (Broadway, Brookside, SR 24) and the heavy school traffic during drop-offs
       and pick-ups is presenting a traffic safety and congestion problem for students, staff
       and neighbors."




                               Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 2
                     RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  College Preparatory School



Nelson\Nygaard response: As stated in the College Prep Traffic Study: the collision rate at the
intersection of Broadway & SR-24 & Brookside is below average (just 0.19 collision per million
vehicles from 2009 to 2011, below the statewide average of 0.43 collisions per million vehicles).
Furthermore, as noted on Page 23 of the College Prep Traffic Study: none of the reported
collisions that occurred in the vicinity of the school (at a rate below the statewide average)
involved pedestrians or cyclists. Therefore, there is no data to support the assertion that the
Proposed Project (i.e., the proposed increase in maximum enrollment of 35 students) would
expose motorists, pedestrians, bus riders, or bicyclists to significant hazards in this case.


    D. Appellant's Comment, Page 2, bullet point 3: "The Nelson report acknowledges
       that a safety threshold for CEQA purposes is whether increased pedestrian or vehicle
       traffic will degrade pedestrian safety. Students parking around the neighborhood and
       then walking to school are "pedestrians" when they are between cars in the
       neighborhood and the school. The photo on Page 10 of the Nelson report and the
       observations of neighbors demonstrates that this complication is not a safe environment
       for pedestrians during drop-off and pick-up operations"
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Appellant's assertion that the walking environment around
the school is "unsafe" is a perception, not supported by data. As stated in the College Prep Traffic
Study: the collision rate at the intersections of Broadway & SR-24 & Brookside and Broadway &
Keith is below average (just 0.19 collision per million vehicles from 2009 to 2011, below the
statewide average of 0.43 collisions per million vehicles). Furthermore, as noted on Page 23 of
the College Prep Traffic Study: none of the reported collisions that occurred in the vicinity of the
school (at a rate below the statewide average) involved pedestrians or cyclists. Furthermore, the
school has taken measures to limit the amount of student parking in the adjacent residential
neighborhoods and has eliminated drop-off access in the neighborhood to ensure that pedestrians
remain on primary routes that do not impact community conditions.


    E. Appellant's Comment, Page 2, bullet point 4: "81% of the staff and students use
       auto transportation. Unlike other schools where there is a bus or shuttle program to
       reduce that number, CPS has consistently been allowing an excessive number of autos
       into the neighborhood, which adds to congestion and safety risks."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Appellant's description of existing conditions is not accurate,
as the school does provide bus transportation, including shuttle service from BART. Further, the
school has taken great care to minimize intrusion into the surrounding neighborhoods, including
identifying "no parking areas" for students and faculty and providing enforcement of these
prohibitions at their own expense. The effectiveness of these measures is well documented in the
Transportation Demand Management study, which showed that increasing enrollment has been
accommodated on campus without increasing vehicle traffic. Further, the appellant's comment
addresses an existing condition, not a description of potential impacts resulting from the
Proposed Project (i.e., the proposed increase in maximum enrollment of 35 students). It should
be noted that as a result of the "Nelson study" College Prep has taken a number of steps to
decrease drive alone trips to school, including increasing shuttle service hours and increasing
opportunities for carpools.




                              Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 3
                    RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                 College Preparatory School



    F. Appellant's Comment, Page 2, bullet point 5: "Despite that there is a BART Station
       within a mile to the school, Figure 5 on Page 8 of the Nelson report demonstrates that
       92% of the students from Piedmont, 86% from San Francisco, and 85% from Oakland
       are all driving to the school. One would normally expect that these students could use
       public transportation and reduce the congestion in the neighborhood."
Nelson\Nygaard response: There is no evidence given to suggest that the drive alone rates
from these communities or any other communities are excessive or surprising. In fact, drive
alone rates at College Prep have declined significantly as the school has improved alternative
transportation options and is likely to continue to improve as a result of changes made since that
study. For example, the school has expanded shuttle hours, and provided BART shuttles for
teams participating in after school activities. This has made BART access viable for a larger
number of students. Further, while the Appellant sites the drive alone rates from Oakland and
Piedmont, new students may come from anywhere in the Bay Area, making that statistic
particularly irrelevant.


    G. Appellant's Comment, Page 2, bullet point 6: "Although the students were
       allegedly supposed to only park in the school lot if they had three students in a carpool,
       students were discovered parking there with only one student. Apparently, there was no
       monitoring to enforce the car pool, parking lot rule. (Nelson report, p. 11.) Furthermore,
       the 3 person in a car rule acts as a disincentive for students to park in the lot. Neighbors
       have noticed that the rule benefits staff and faculty so that they are guaranteed spots in
       the lot, while the students, who obey the rule, are forced into the street. Meanwhile,
       there are empty, unused parking spots in the lot. These empty spots translate into more
       traffic and parked cars, related to the school, ending up in the neighborhood. Instead,
       the rule should be that any faculty or student with two or more people in a car can park
       in the lot, which provides an incentive to carpool."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Transportation Demand Management report noted that the
school parking lot was fully utilized. The carpool rule has been enforced and continues to be
enforced, although occasionally a late arriving student is able to find parking and avoid carpool
enforcement, this is a relatively rare occurrence. The Appellant's primary concern seems to be the
number of cars parking in the neighborhood. Parking in adjacent residential neighborhoods is
very well enforced by the school and has been almost entirely eliminated, as described in the
Transportation Demand Management Report. The school has worked closely with neighbors to
accomplish this and would welcome the opportunity to continue to do so.
Efforts made by the school have resulted in a decrease in auto travel to the school, despite
increasing enrollment. This trend is likely to continue given improvements to the BART shuttle
and continued focus on alternatives to driving alone.


    H. Appellant's Comment, Page 3, bullet point 1: "Due to the high school enrollment,
       coupled with the heavy use of auto transportation by students and staff who fill up the
       school's parking lot, 64% of them are using the streets surrounding the school as a
       supplement to the school parking lot, which is inconsistent with a residential
       neighborhood. While parking is not a CEQA issue, it is an issue when evaluating the
       school's impact on the neighborhood's character. The residential neighborhood should
       not become part of the school's operation."



                              Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 4
                     RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  College Preparatory School



Nelson\Nygaard response: The Appellant's statement that 64 percent of students and staff
use the surrounding streets as a supplement to the school parking lot is incorrect. The use of
street parking is limited to those students that drive-alone or arrive in a 2-person carpool (while
3-person student carpools can park on-campus). As stated in the College Prep Traffic Study
(based on information gathered during preparation of the TDM Plan), 36 percent of students are
driven by a parent, 31 percent carpool, 16 percent use public transit (BART or AC Transit), 3
percent walk, 2 percent ride a bicycle, and just 12 percent drive alone. The school puts particular
emphasis on enforcing "no student parking zones" in the residential neighborhoods and would
welcome and support neighbors in their desire to implement neighborhood parking permits to
further reduce any students parking in the neighborhood who may have gone undetected.


    I.   Appellant's Comment, Page 3, bullet point 2: "The current CUP specifically
         allows drop off along Broadway. But where? Every possible location near the entrance
         to CPS is marked No Parking or No Stopping. The CUP is inconsistent with existing
         parking/stopping signs; as a result, there are traffic and safety hazards from students
         and staff violating the signs, which were designed to prevent accidents and keep
         Broadway open to through traffic. The Nelson report completely overlooked this traffic
         problem in suggesting that the students and staff can use Broadway for parking.
         (Nelson report, p. 12.)"
Nelson\Nygaard response: As noted in the Transportation Demand Management study,
parking is allowed at the curb on Upper Broadway just west of the campus driveway. Drop-offs
may occur legally at this curb where space is available. Drop-offs are encouraged to occur within
the parking lot and the school has configured the lot for ease of drop-off activity, and based on
observation, nearly all drop-off activity does take place inside the parking lot. This is described in
some detail in the Transportation Demand Management study. The subsequent traffic study
assumed that additional drop-off activity from the increased enrollment would take place within
the parking lot.


    J. Appellant's Comment, Page 3, bullet point 3: "The Nelson report makes much of
       the reduction by about 40 autos arriving at the school during drop-off between 2008
       (353 students) and 2010 (372 students.) However, it does not explain how this drop was
       achieved (if it really was achieved- there are no specifics as to how counts were
       completed, over what period of time, and by whom.) Nor does it provide any
       independent counts for 2011 or 2012, or any tables showing the percentage of students
       or staff using carpools. (Nelson report, p. 14.) The 40 auto alleged reduction does not
       make mathematical sense given the admittedly high percentage of students and staff
       dependent on autos for transportation to and from school."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The description of the decrease in traffic from 2008 to 2010 is
contained in the College Preparatory School Transportation Demand Management Study
prepared by Nelson\Nygaard in March 2011 (College Prep TDM Study). A key element of this
study was independent counts of driveway activity combined with a survey of students and staff.
Counts taken in 2008 were conducted by school personnel using standard manual traffic counting
techniques similar to the 2010 data collection. No additional counts were required by the City in
preparation of the project application because there was no indication that conditions had
changed.




                               Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 5
                    RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                 College Preparatory School



The data collected by Nelson\Nygaard was supplemented by peak-hour traffic volume data at off-
site study intersections independently collected and provided by the City.
The Appellant questions the decrease in auto trips suggesting that there is no reasonable
explanation for the decrease in auto trips. However, as the Transportation Demand Management
report documents at length, the school has put significant resources and energy into programs
designed to reduce single occupant auto trips to school and has been very successful in moving
students to shuttle and carpool options.


    K. Appellant's Comment, Page 3, bullet point 4 and paragraph i: "The Nelson
       report quotes a traffic study commissioned by EBMUD for a recent project as
       demonstrating a level of service (LOS) of E/F for the PM peak hour period at the
       Broadway and SR-24 EB ramp and a B/F rating for the Brookside and Broadway PM
       Peak hour. Nelson argues that adding more students, therefore, would not decrease the
       LOS further since it already is extremely poor. (Nelson report, p. 20.) Nelson has
       misread the traffic study:
        (i) "The traffic study by Fehr & Peers, cited by Nelson, indicates on page 9 (attached
        Exhibit B) that its peak AM period traffic count was between 7:00 and 9:00a.m. and its
        peak PM traffic count period was between 4:00 and 6:00p.m., long after school was
        over. 1 Its only relevant data for comparing this traffic study's counts with those of
        Nelson would be for the morning count when school was in session."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Appellant is correct in noting that the peak-hour count data
provided by the City does not include the "afternoon" school peak period (i.e., 2:30 to 3:30 PM).
Since school was not in operation at the time the College Prep Traffic Study was conducted (in
early August) it was not feasible to augment that data at that time. However, the Transportation
Demand Management Plan shows that arrivals at school are much more concentrated than
departures, because students may end their day at one of two different dismissal times and a
significant portion of students remain for after school activities. Therefore, the worst case
condition for school volumes is the AM Peak Period.


    L. Appellant's Comment, Page 4, paragraph ii: "On page 12 of the Fehr traffic study,
       Fehr shows for the Broadway/SR 24 EB onramp an LOS rating of A for the AM time
       period and B for the time period when there is the highest amount of traffic. It shows the
       same morning LOS of A and B for the Broadway/Brookside Ave/SR24 intersection.
       Contrary to Nelson, the footnote does not relate to any queue spill-back. Nelson has
       misread the document. (See attached Exhibit C.)"
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Fehr & Peers study identified LOS F for the side-street stop-
controlled approach to the Broadway/SR-24 EB On-ramp Intersection (while the College Prep
Traffic Study identified LOS E for that approach). The Appellant is correct that the reference to
"queue spill-back" (described on Table 2 of the Fehr & Peers) applies to several other
intersections (Broadway & Kay Overcrossing and Caldecott Lane & Kay Overcrossing), but the
Fehr & Peers study does not specify that queue-spill back occurs affecting the Broadway/SR-24
EB On-ramp Intersection. However, this does not change the finding of potential impacts at the
Broadway/SR-24 EB On-ramp Intersection. At side-street stop-controlled intersections, the level
of service (LOS) based on Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology is based on the average




                              Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 6
                    RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                 College Preparatory School



delay to the side-street stop-controlled approach. Therefore, the applicable LOS is F (based on
HCM methodology and the findings of the Fehr & Peers study) or E (based on HCM methodology
and the findings of the College Prep Traffic Study prepared by Nelson\Nygaard). However: this
finding pertains only to the stop-sign approaching the on-ramp (not the stop-sign on Brookside
Avenue approaching Broadway). The Fehr & Peers study did not provide a separate LOS
evaluation for the Brookside Avenue approach. By contrast, the College Prep Traffic Study
included a separate LOS finding for the Brookside approach, that identified LOS B (based strictly
on volumes and anticipated delay calculations), but the College Prep Traffic Study also noted that
this delay would be affected by the downstream delay (i.e., the second stop-sign approach,
approaching the on-ramp).


    M. Appellant's Comment, Page 4, paragraph iii: "The traffic conclusions by Fehr are
       supported by the 2002 environmental impact report commissioned by CalTrans for the
       Caldecott Tunnel Fourth Bore project. In its EIR, on page 87, for the Broadway & SR 24
       EB onramp, the AM peak hour LOS is A and the PM peak hour was B. (See attached
       Exhibit D.)"
Nelson\Nygaard response: The referenced exhibit was not attached to the Appellant's letter.
However, it is likely that the reference to LOS A/B in 2002 is based on "overall average delay",
not on the "side-street delay approaching the stop-signs" that is applicable based on HCM
methodology and was the basis of the College Prep Traffic Study, as described in another
response above.


    N. Appellant's Comment, Page 4, paragraph iv: "In the context of the Fehr and
       Caltrans traffic studies it appears that the counts obtained by Nelson demonstrate that
       the school's contribution to the traffic load has now, with the addition of students over
       the 340 enrollment cap reduced the morning LOS from an A to a C at the Brookside and
       Broadway intersection. (See page 20, Figure 16 and page 21, figure 17 of the Nelson
       report.) The reduction of an LOS that started in 2002 as A and is now reduced to C (per
       Nelson) is not consistent with preserving the neighborhood character."
Nelson\Nygaard response: The Appellant provides a description of existing conditions, not a
description of potential impacts resulting from the Proposed Project (i.e., the proposed increase
in maximum enrollment of 35 additional students) and is therefore not relevant for the review of
the Proposed Project. It should be noted that LOS C is within the City's standard for intersections
of this type. Changes in LOS over the last decade at this intersection cannot be attributed to the
school, or to the school alone as traffic counts show a decrease in auto volumes travelling to the
school in roughly the same period.


    O. Appellant's Comment, Page 4, bullet point (bottom of page): "Despite the
       attempt to downplay the number of auto accidents, Nelson eventually concedes that
       between 2009 and 2011, there were eight auto accidents that most likely were related to
       school traffic. Adding traffic to transport another 35 students over the number agreed
       upon by CPS is inconsistent with traffic safety. (Nelson report, pp. 23-24.)
Nelson\Nygaard response: This statement is incorrect. The College Prep Traffic Study noted,
on pages 23 and 24, that five (5) reported collisions occurred at the intersection of Broadway &



                              Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 7
                     RESPONSE TO APPEAL LETTER | FEBRUARY 28, 2013
                                  College Preparatory School



Keith between 2009 and 2011, and three (3) reported collisions occurred at the intersection of
Broadway & SR-24 EB On-Ramp & Brookside occurred from 2009 to 2011. These are the
collision totals over the entire period. There was no assertion that any of these collisions were
attributable to school traffic, or even occurred during school travel hours.


    P. Appellant's Comment, Page 5, bullet point (top of page): "Nelson also states that
       "Increased student enrollment is not anticipated to result in a significant increase in AC
       Transit ridership generated by trips to/from [CPS]." A future of CPS continuing to rely
       heavily on auto transportation will continue the pattern of neighborhood congestion
       due to the school's creeping upward enrollment. (Nelson report, p. 25.)"
Nelson\Nygaard response: Nelson\Nygaard did not suggest that College Prep's enrollment
would "continue creeping upward" or that "neighborhood congestion would continue to increase".
Quite to the contrary, the Transportation Demand Management report shows that with
investments in resources and energy the school can meet its enrollment target without increasing
auto traffic at all. Many of the recommendations of the 2011 report have already been
implemented and while additional counts have not been taken, increases in shuttle ridership and
observations by staff suggest that auto dependence is further reduced. The school takes seriously
its desire to reduce its carbon footprint and its stewardship of the neighborhood and welcomes
the opportunity to work with the neighbors to ensure that students minimally impact their quality
of life while providing a wonderful educational resource for the Bay Area.


I look forward to the opportunity to present our analysis in the future, as needed. Please let me
know how we may be of further assistance.
Sincerely,




Bonnie Nelson
President




                              Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 8
Exhibit B
April 30, 2013


Jane H. Carney
Chief Financial Officer
The College Preparatory School
6100 Broadway, Oakland CA 94611


Re: Comment Email Dated 14 Mar 2012 Regarding 2011 Transportation Demand
Management Study for College Prep
Dear Jane,
I have reviewed the comments made by Mr. Tom Brohard, traffic engineer for the appellant to
your CUP application. This letter responds to each of his ten comments.
1.   Report is Outdated. The Appellant notes that the study was completed in 2011 and relies
     on data collected in December 2010. This is correct, as this study was completed at the
     beginning of this process. It is important to note that the 2010 school year was the "high
     water mark" for enrollment, making the data relevant to the current condition. However, in
     response, we are conducting new counts on May 1, 2013, including counting the
     Brookside/Broadway intersection. We will provide an analysis of that data under separate
     cover.
2. Status of Report Recommendations The school has done a remarkable job of
   implementing the TDM measures recommended in the plan. To summarize:
         a.   The BART shuttle has been expanded to operate until approximately 5:10 PM,
              making it possible for students with after school activities to access BART easily.
         b. All sports teams that use school vans now make a stop at BART to allow students to
            access BART after practices and games.
         c.   BART/shuttle marketing has been enhanced, utilizing campus news and assemblies.
              Transit information links are included on the school's website.
         d. The school developed a "clickable" interactive map that allows school affiliates to
            identify others in their area for carpooling. Zip code "tables" are used in orientation
            and parent meetings on site to allow parents in the same area to meet each other at
            school events.
         e.   Sports team rosters are made available so that students and parents can organize
              rides.
         f.   Bike parking has been added, and bike racks are located in areas with roof coverage.
         g.   Shower and locker facilities are available to students and faculty to ride to school.
         h. The school is working closely with the 4th bore project on the design of the new
            bikeway proposed for Upper Broadway which will encourage biking to school.
         i.   The school has enrolled in Alameda County's Guaranteed Ride Home program.




116 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET, SUITE 500      SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105      415-284-1544    FAX 415-284-1554
                                        www.nelsonnygaard.com
                         RESPONSE TO TDM PLAN COMMENTS | APRIL 2013
                                    College Preparatory School



         j.   The Dean of Students has been named Transportation Coordinator and has worked
              closely with students, parents and community members that have concerns about
              transportation.
         k. School enforcement related to parking in the neighborhood has increased. All
            neighbor complaints about school related parking on Brookside have been
            investigated.
         l.   Parking within the lot has been made available for scheduled visitors by using school
              staff to valet park scheduled visitors.
         m. There have been major improvements to the school's access and egress including
            making changes to the school driveway, implementing virtually all of the safety
            recommendations in the report.
         n. The school has coordinated with the City of Oakland to add "Keep Clear" striping and
            signage to the Brookside and Broadway intersection, to improve access and egress for
            Brookside residents. The City Engineer made a site visit and has signed off on plans
            which are now pending City implementation.
3. Percentages in Tables. Many of the tables in the TDM plan include both the number of
   responses and the percentage of responses for each variable. Where percentages only were
   used, it was with intent to allow comparisons between survey results and actual observations
   which counted all students, whether they responded to the survey or not..To be fully
   responsive, the number of respondents to survey questions were added to the tables attached
   to this letter.
4. Fewer Parking Spaces Today. No parking spaces were permanently removed and the
   parking spaces that had been removed for the temporary classroom building described in the
   TDM report have been restored. The letter is incorrect.
5. Back Exit Closed. The back exit has been closed except for emergency use, and is never
   available for routine access or pick up. This significantly reduced the impact of school travel
   on the neighborhood.
6. Alternative to Right Turn Only signage. The school implemented the safety
   improvement recommended in the TDM report to add a sidewalk, reconfigure the driveway
   and improve the signage at the driveway, at considerable expense. Implementation of these
   changes has improved circulation of both cars and pedestrians. Mr. Brohard's suggestion
   would require widening the driveway, eliminating the sidewalk which was added to provide a
   safe pedestrian pathway and would also allow left turns (which are currently prohibited)
   which we feel is not desirable due to limited sight lines at that location.
7.   School enforcement. The school has increased enforcement in the neighborhood by
     utilizing walking patrols and stationing security personnel in locations that allow for
     observation. School expectations concerning transportation and "no parking areas" are
     regularly provided to students and parents, including regular reminders. The school provides
     a regular community newsletter to neighbors, providing contact information in case of
     questions about parking impacts on local streets. In cases where residents identify a potential
     school related vehicle, the license plate is photographed, compared to a listing of registered
     student vehicles and published in campus communications. Every effort has been made to
     minimize school impacts on local parking. Further, the school has offered to support




                               Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 2
                         RESPONSE TO TDM PLAN COMMENTS | APRIL 2013
                                    College Preparatory School



    neighbors if they choose to pursue a neighborhood parking permit program, which would
    limit legal parking of non-residents to 2 hours
8. Increase Spaces in the Parking Lot. Mr. Brohard's memo suggests that 14 parkign
   spaces are reserved for school vehicles. A total of 11 spaces are assigned to school vehicles
   including 10 vans and 1 maintenance vehicle. Those vehicles are used throughout the day for
   student activities and other assignments and therefore cannot be relocated. However, the
   facility staff has utilized the aisle where school vehicles are parked as a "valet zone" providing
   "double parking" spaces for scheduled visitors who will be arriving on campus at known
   times.
9. Good Ideas Not Included in Recommendations. The report includes some further
   recommendations to be pursued if additional vehicle reduction is needed and if the measures
   could be made affordable. In response, the school has made discount BART tickets available
   on campus but does not provide reimbursement to students. In addition, the school is
   currently investigating the viability of a pre-tax transit fare program for faculty and staff.
10. Caltrans Settlement. The school has been very active on the 4th Bore Committee and has
    worked with the City, Caltrans and East Bay MUD to ensure that they can maintain a
    partnership that improves access and mobility for all. The school has participated in the
    design of the Broadway bike lanes and has ensured that any parking lost due to the
    implementation of bike lanes be replaced nearby without widening Broadway which would
    not be allowed under the current environmental document. The resulting design will have
    many benefits to both the school and local community including slowing traffic speeds on
    Broadway which will benefit residents on Brookside attempting to enter the Broadway traffic
    flow, provide safe pedestrian and bike access to the area, improve landscaping and
    streetscape, and maintain capacity and maintain or expand the number of available parking
    spaces.
In summary, the school continues to do a very impressive job in implementing demand
management techniques to reduce auto travel to school.
Aloha,




Bonnie Nelson
Founding Principal

Attachment A: Revised Tables from TDM Report




                               Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 3
Exhibit C
                            College Prep Trip Count Summary ­ May 2013
                                              Oakland, CA




MEMORANDUM
To:         Jane Carney, College Preparatory School
From:       Bonnie Nelson & Colin Burgett
Date:       May 16, 2013
Subject:    2013 College Prep Traffic Counts

Attached are the results on the updated traffic counts conducted by an independent subconsultant
on May 1, 2013, and a summary of findings is provided below.

Description
Updated motor vehicle volume counts were conducted at the following locations during the AM
(7:00 to 9:00) and Early Afternoon (2:00 to 4:00) Peak Periods for school traffic:
         Broadway & Golden Gate Way
         Broadway & College Prep Driveway
         Broadway & Brookside
In addition to motor vehicle volumes, the following data was also collected:
         Vehicle occupancy for vehicles entering the College Prep driveway during the AM Peak
         Hour, and exiting during the PM Peak Hour, in order to estimate the 2013 rate of
         carpooling; and
         Bicycle and pedestrian volumes were recorded at each of the three locations.

Purpose
The May 2013 counts allow for a comparison with prior traffic data described in the following two
reports prepared by Nelson\Nygaard:
         College Preparatory School Transportation Demand Study (2011 TDM Study) prepared
         in March 2011, including an estimate of travel mode patterns for trips to/from the school.
         College Preparatory School Traffic Study (2012 CP-TS) prepared on August 9, 2012 to
         assess the potential traffic impacts resulting from 35 additional students (as proposed),
         including an estimate of additional vehicle trips that would be generated by 35 additional
         students.
             o   The CP-TS was based on the higher rate of trip generation for College
                 Preparatory School derived from Year 2008 data. Although Year 2010 data
                 showed a lower rate of vehicle trip generation: the use of the higher Year 2008
                 rate was used in order to provide a "conservatively high" estimate of the number
                 of vehicle trips that would be generated by 35 additional students (as currently



                            Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 1
                   May 2013 Trip Count Summary for College Preparatory School
                                          Oakland, CA



                proposed). The May 1, 2013 counts are intended provide an updated data set and
                a further point of comparison with both the 2008 and 2010 rates of vehicle trip
                generation.
            o   The assessment of potential traffic impacts described in the 2012 CP-TS was
                based on September 2010 traffic volume data provided by City of Oakland staff.
                Updated traffic volumes were conducted at the intersection of Broadway &
                Brookside, in order to assess the continued validity of the 2010 counts. In
                addition, counts were also conducted at the intersection of Broadway & Golden
                Gate Way.
            o   The 2012 CP-TS included an assessment of PM peak-hour traffic operations
                during the overall "evening peak" between 4:00 and 6:00 pm, which is the period
                of the afternoon when traffic volumes are highest. Since the afternoon "school
                peak" occurs earlier (between 2:30 and 3:30 pm), the 2013 counts were
                conducted between 2:00 and 4:00 pm, for the purpose of comparing the early-
                afternoon traffic volumes on Broadway with the evening peak-hour traffic
                volumes between 4:00 and 6:00 pm.

Summary of Findings
Detailed summaries of the May 1, 2013 traffic counts are provided in Attachment A. Key findings
are summarized below.
Traffic Volumes & Trip Generation
        Further reductions in the number of arriving vehicles at the College Preparatory School
        have occurred since 2010, following an earlier reduction that occurred between 2008 and
        2010:
            o   20 percent reduction in the number of arriving vehicles during the AM Peak
                Hour between 2008 and 2013
            o   Six (6) percent reduction in the number of arriving vehicles during the PM Peak
                Hour between 2010 and 2013
        Inbound traffic in 2013 was also found to be dispersed compared to 2008:
            o   As noted in the 2011 TDM Study, approximately 166 vehicles arrived on campus
                within a 15-minute period during the AM Peak Hour in 2008. By comparison:
                the May 2013 counts found that just 84 vehicles arrived during the peak 15-
                minute period of the AM drop-off period.
        The school continues to generate a lower rate of vehicle trips than the rate of 1.17 vehicle
        trips per student during the AM Peak Hour (as shown on Figure 1) that was used to
        evaluate traffic impacts as described in the 2012 CP-TS. The actual rate of vehicle trip
        generation by the school of less than 1.00 vehicle trip per student during the AM Peak
        Hour.
            o   Note: the rate of 1.00 vehicle trips per student includes both inbound &
                outbound trips when student drop-offs occur. In those cases: a parent dropping
                off a student generates two trips (one inbound and one outbound). The overall
                rate of arriving vehicles (not including outbound trips) is approximately 0.6 per
                student during the AM Peak Hour.

                            Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 2
                            May 2013 Trip Count Summary for College Preparatory School
                                                   Oakland, CA



Figure 1               Vehicle Trip Generation Rates from August 2012 College Prep Traffic
Study




Source: Nelson\Nygaard, The College Preparatory School Traffic Study, August 9, 2012



Rates of Carpooling & Use of Campus Shuttles
            Based on vehicle occupancy observations at the school driveway during the AM Peak
            Hour:
                  o     Arriving vehicles (entering the driveway) carried an average of 1.35 students per
                        vehicle.
                                    Overall rate of vehicle occupancy (including an estimated 12 percent of
                                    students that park on Golden Gate or Broadway) is 1.3 students per
                                    arriving vehicle during the AM Peak Hour.
                  o     The highest rate of vehicle occupancy was by 18 student-driven vehicles entering
                        the driveway during the AM Peak Hour, which carried an average of 2.39
                        students per vehicle (including the driver).
                  o     Parent-driven vehicles carried an average of 1.18 students per vehicle (thus
                        approximately 18 percent of parents dropped off two students)




                                        Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 3
                           College Prep Trip Count Summary ­ May 2013
                                             Oakland, CA



Traffic Volumes & Potential Traffic Impacts
        The 2012 CP-TS found that the proposed enrollment increase would not result in
        significant impacts to traffic. This finding remains valid, since the May 1, 2013 found
        that:
            o   The number of vehicle trips generated by the school was reduced by six percent
                since 2010 (as noted above) and the overall rate of vehicle trip generation by the
                school is lower than the rate used in the 2012 CP-TS; and
            o   AM Peak Hour traffic volumes on Broadway, adjacent to the College Preparatory
                School Driveway (including trips generated by the school) were reduced by four
                (4) percent between 2010 and 2013, based on the May 1, 2013 counts, thus
                further reducing the likelihood of impacts occurring; and
            o   Early-afternoon traffic volumes on Broadway during the "school peak" of 2:30 to
                3:30 pm were found to be approximately one-third lower than the "evening peak
                hour" that occurs after 4:00 pm, and also approximately one-fourth lower than
                the AM Peak Hour.
                        In addition: the rate of traffic generated by the school is much lower
                        during the afternoon, compared to the AM Peak Hour. Based on the
                        May 1, 2013 driveway counts: the number of vehicles entering and
                        exiting the school driveway between 2:30 to 3:30 pm (the busiest 60-
                        minute period during the afternoon) was found to be less than half the
                        AM Peak Hour.
AM Peak Hour Vehicle Trips
The key findings of the May 1, 2013 AM Peak Hour vehicle counts at the College Prep driveway
are described below focusing on a comparison of arriving vehicles during the AM Peak Hour in
2008, 2010 and 2013:
           o    Year 2008: 280 vehicles arrived at College Prep during the AM Peak
                Hour in 2008 and generated 412 AM Peak Hour vehicle trips (including 132
                round-trips by vehicles dropping students off on campus).
                        2008 arrival patterns included a greater concentration of trips during the
                        "peak of the peak", with approximately 166 vehicles arriving within a 15-
                        minute period. By comparison: the May 2013 counts found that just 84
                        vehicles arrived during the peak 15-minute period of the AM drop-off
                        period.
           o    Year 2010: 240 vehicles arrived at College Prep School during the AM
                Peak Hour and generated 346 AM Peak Hour vehicle trips (including 106
                round-trips by vehicles dropping students off on campus)
                        Driveway Vehicle Trips: 197 vehicles entered the College Prep driveway
                        in 2010 during the AM Peak Hour based on data summarized in the CP-
                        TDMS. Those vehicles generated a total of 299 vehicle trips (197 inbound
                        vehicles, plus 102 outbound vehicle trips generated by parents exiting
                        after dropping students off within campus).




                           Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 4
       May 2013 Trip Count Summary for College Preparatory School
                              Oakland, CA



                    Note: the 2010 estimate of outbound vehicle trips was based on
                    observed parent drop-offs only, as no outbound trips by school-
                    operated shuttle buses were observed based on the 2010 counts.
           Off-Campus Vehicle Trips: 43 additional vehicles arrived at campus
           without entering the campus driveway in 2010, including 39 student
           vehicles parked on Broadway and four (4) vehicles that were observed
           dropping students off on Broadway. Therefore, those 43 additional
           vehicles generated a total of 47 AM Peak Hour trips (43 inbound plus 4
           outbound vehicle trips generated by parent drop-offs occurring on
           Broadway).
           Total Vehicle Trips: total of 240 vehicles arrived at College Prep School
           in 2010, based on the combined total of driveway and non-driveway
           vehicles as described above. Those 240 vehicles generated a total of 346
           AM Peak Hour vehicle trips (240 inbound vehicle trips, plus 106
           additional outbound vehicle trips generated by parent drop-offs).
o   Year 2013: 225 vehicles arrived at College Prep School during the AM
    Peak Hour in 2013, and generated 340 AM Peak Hour vehicle trips
    (including 115 round-trips by both parents and shuttle buses dropping students
    off on campus) based on the following:
           Driveway Vehicle Trips: the College Prep driveway served 185 vehicles in
           2013 based on driveway counts conducted on May 1, 2013 (as shown in
           Appendix A). This represents a six percent reduction compared to 2010,
           when 197 vehicles arrived via the driveway.
                    Those 185 entering vehicles generated a total of 300 vehicle trips
                    during the AM Peak Hour: 185 inbound vehicles, plus 115
                    outbound vehicle trips generated by parents and shuttle buses
                    exiting after dropping students off within campus. (Note: the
                    2013 counts included observations of outbound trips by school-
                    operated shuttle buses.)
                    Although 12 fewer vehicles entered the driveway in 2013, a total
                    of 13 additional vehicles exited the driveway. The imbalance is
                    likely attributable to the following two factors:
                        o   Increase in the rate of parents dropping their students
                            off at College Prep school. While 52 percent of inbound
                            vehicle trips entering the driveway were "round-trips" in
                            2010 (i.e., 102 out of 197 inbound vehicles exited after
                            dropping off students), this increased to 62 percent of
                            "round-trips" in 2013 (115 out of 185 inbound vehicles
                            exited after dropping off students).
                        o   Increase in shuttle bus service between 2010 and 2013.
                            Outbound shuttle bus trips (exiting the driveway) were
                            not observed to occur in 2010.




               Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 5
                  May 2013 Trip Count Summary for College Preparatory School
                                         Oakland, CA



                       Off-Campus Vehicle Trips: up to 40 additional vehicles estimated to
                       arrive at campus without entering the campus driveway in 2013 based on
                       the 2010 data.
                       Total Vehicle Trips: total of 225 vehicles arrived at College Prep School
                       in 2013, based on the combined total of driveway counts and estimated
                       number of students parking off-campus, generating 340 AM Peak Hour
                       vehicle trips (225 inbound vehicle trips, plus 115 additional outbound
                       vehicle trips generated by parent and shuttle-bus drop-offs).

Summary Comparison of Vehicle Trip Generation Trends
Based on the comparison of 2008, 2010 and 2013 AM Peak Hour vehicle trips arriving and
exiting College Prep:
                       The number of vehicles arriving at College Prep during the AM Peak
                       Hour decreased by 20 percent between 2008 and 2013, including a six
                       (6) percent reduction in the number of arriving vehicles between 2010
                       and 2013:
                               2008: 280 inbound vehicles
                               2010: 240 inbound vehicles
                               2013: 225 inbound vehicles
                       The number of outbound vehicle trips decreased 13 percent between
                       2008 and 2013, but increased by 8 percent between 2010 and 2013:
                               2008: 132 outbound vehicles
                               2010: 106 outbound vehicles
                               2013: 115 outbound vehicles
                       Total vehicle trips generated by College Prep during the AM Peak Hour
                       decreased by 17 percent between 2008 and 2013, and decreased by two
                       (2) percent between 2010 and 2013:
                               2008: 412 vehicles trips
                               2010: 346 vehicle trips
                               2012: 340 vehicle trips




                          Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 6
   College Prep Trip Count Summary ­ May 2013
                     Oakland, CA




Attachment A
May 1, 2013 Counts ­
Data Sheets




   Nelson\Nygaard Consulting Associates Inc. | 7
WILTEC                                                                          Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                       NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                      COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                         WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD:                       7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:         N/S     CPS DRIVEWAY
                      E/W     BROADWAY
CITY:                         OAKLAND

                                                 VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS             VEHICLES                         BICYCLES                         PEDESTRIANS
                  INBOUND         OUTBOUND         INBOUND         OUTBOUND           INBOUND        OUTBOUND
PERIOD          WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT     WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT       WBLT   EBRT    NBRT    NBLT
700-715              3       4       1       3        0       0       0         0        0      0       0                0
715-730             12      11       5       5        0       0       0         0        1      0       0                0
730-745              8      16       6       3        1       0       0         0        8      0       0                0
745-800             29      55      43       1        0       1       0         0        4      1       0                0
800-815             11      43      52       0        0       1       0         0        1      2       0                0
815-830              1       3       1       0        0       0       0         0        0      0       0                0
830-845              1       2       0       0        0       0       0         0        0      0       0                0
845-900              3       6       0       4        0       0       0         0        0      0       0                0
HOUR TOTALS       INBOUND         OUTBOUND         INBOUND         OUTBOUND           INBOUND        OUTBOUND
PERIOD          WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT     WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT       WBLT   EBRT    NBRT    NBLT
700-800             52      86      55      12        1       1       0         0       13      1       0                0
715-815             60     125     106       9        1       2       0         0       14      3       0                0
730-830             49     117     102       4        1       2       0         0       13      3       0                0
745-845             42     103      96       1        0       2       0         0        5      3       0                0
800-900             16      54      53       4        0       1       0         0        1      2       0                0
WILTEC                                                                          Phone: (626) 564-1944   Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                       NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                      COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                         WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD:                       2:00 PM TO 4:00 PM
INTERSECTION:         N/S     CPS DRIVEWAY
                      E/W     BROADWAY
CITY:                         OAKLAND

                                                 VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS             VEHICLES                         BICYCLES                         PEDESTRIANS
                  INBOUND         OUTBOUND         INBOUND         OUTBOUND           INBOUND        OUTBOUND
PERIOD          WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT     WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT       WBLT   EBRT    NBRT    NBLT
200-215              2       2       0       2        0       0        0        0        0      0       0                0
215-230              6       5       4       6        0       0        0        0        0      0       6                0
230-245              5      10       1      10        0       0        0        0        1      0       0                0
245-300              3      10       4       3        0       0        0        1        2      0       0                0
300-315              5      11      13       3        0       0        0        0        0      0       1                6
315-330             11      10      42       2        0       0        1        2        1      0       2                1
330-345              1       9       4      12        0       0        0        0        0      0       1                0
345-400              1       4       2       6        0       0        1        0        0      0       0                1
HOUR TOTALS       INBOUND         OUTBOUND         INBOUND         OUTBOUND           INBOUND        OUTBOUND
PERIOD          WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT     WBLT   EBRT     NBRT    NBLT       WBLT   EBRT    NBRT    NBLT
200-300             16      27       9      21        0       0        0        1        3      0       6                0
215-315             19      36      22      22        0       0        0        1        3      0       7                6
230-330             24      41      60      18        0       0        1        3        4      0       3                7
245-345             20      40      63      20        0       0        1        3        3      0       4                7
300-400             18      34      61      23        0       0        0        2        1      0       4                8
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                                COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                                   WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        GOLDEN GATE AVENUE
                             E/W        BROADWAY
CITY:                                   OAKLAND

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4          5          6        7           8        9          10         11          12U
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBUT     TOTAL
700-715               0           0           0           0          6          0        7           0        3           2         17             0       35
715-730               0           0           0           0         16          1        8           0        4           8         60             0       97
730-745               0           0           0           0         24         10       16           0       17          10        133             0      210
745-800               0           0           0           0         25          6       19           0       35          33        121             2      241
800-815               0           0           0           0         17          3       21           0       37          42         96             9      225
815-830               0           0           0           0          5          0       13           0       27          11        107             0      163
830-845               0           0           0           0          6          0       17           0       33           8        111             0      175
845-900               0           0           0           0          8          4       11           0        4           4         90             0      121
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4          5          6        7           8        9          10         11          12U
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBUT     TOTAL
700-800               0           0           0           0         71         17       50           0       59          53        331             2      583
715-815               0           0           0           0         82         20       64           0       93          93        410            11      773
730-830               0           0           0           0         71         19       69           0      116          96        457            11      839
745-845               0           0           0           0         53          9       70           0      132          94        435            11      804
800-900               0           0           0           0         36          7       62           0      101          65        404             9      684

 AM PEAK HOUR:     730-830
                                                                                             0

                                           0           0           0                         71

                                                                                             19



                                               11

BROADWAY                                       457                           116       0          69

                                               96                                   GOLDEN GATE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           4           0            4          700-715                      0          0           6          0            6
715-730                  0          0           3           0            3          715-730                      0          0           3          0            3
730-745                  0          0           1           0            1          730-745                      0          0           4          0            4
745-800                  0          0           4           0            4          745-800                      0          0           5          0            5
800-815                  0          0           6           0            6          800-815                      0          0           6          0            6
815-830                  0          0           1           0            1          815-830                      0          0           7          0            7
830-845                  0          0           3           0            3          830-845                      0          0           4          0            4
845-900                  0          0           2           0            2          845-900                      0          0           3          0            3
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH WEST              TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH WEST             TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG     LEG                                 PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG     LEG
700-800                  0          0        12             0           12          700-800                      0          0        18            0           18
715-815                  0          0        14             0           14          715-815                      0          0        18            0           18
730-830                  0          0        12             0           12          730-830                      0          0        22            0           22
745-845                  0          0        14             0           14          745-845                      0          0        22            0           22
800-900                  0          0        12             0           12          800-900                      0          0        20            0           20
WILTEC                                                                                                     Phone: (626) 564-1944       Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                               COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                                  WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD"                                2:00 PM TO 4:00 PM
INTERSECTION:               N/S        GOLDEN GATE AVENUE
                            E/W        BROADWAY
CITY:                                  OAKLAND

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS        1           2           3           4          5         6        7           8        9          10         11       12U
PERIOD            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH      EBUT     TOTAL
200-215              0           0           0           0          5         1        7           0        7           2         38          0       60
215-230              0           0           0           0         12         1        3           0       14           5         41          0       76
230-245              0           0           0           0          6         0        1           0        5           2         18          0       32
245-300              0           0           0           0          1         2        0           0        5           3         14          0       25
300-315              0           0           0           0         11         3        6           0        7           5         34          3       69
315-330              0           0           0           0         32         3       18           0       37          45         91          5      231
330-345              0           0           0           0         13         3        1           0        7           6         89          3      122
345-400              0           0           0           0         22         2       11           0        5           2        138          1      181
HOUR TOTALS          1           2           3           4          5         6        7           8        9          10         11       12U
PERIOD            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH      EBUT     TOTAL
200-300              0           0           0           0         24         4       11           0       31          12        111          0      193
215-315              0           0           0           0         30         6       10           0       31          15        107          3      202
230-330              0           0           0           0         50         8       25           0       54          55        157          8      357
245-345              0           0           0           0         57        11       25           0       56          59        228         11      447
300-400              0           0           0           0         78        11       36           0       56          58        352         12      603

 PM PEAK HOUR     300-400
                                                                                           0

                                          0           0           0                        78

                                                                                           11



                                              12

BROADWAY                                      352                          56        0          36

                                              58                                  GOLDEN GATE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS   NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH    WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD          LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG      LEG
200-215                 0          0           1           0           1          200-215                      0          0         3         0            3
215-230                 0          0           0           0           0          215-230                      0          0         4         0            4
230-245                 0          0           1           0           1          230-245                      0          0         2         0            2
245-300                 0          0           2           0           2          245-300                      0          0         0         0            0
300-315                 0          0           1           0           1          300-315                      0          0         3         0            3
315-330                 0          0           2           0           2          315-330                      0          0        12         0           12
330-345                 0          0           4           0           4          330-345                      0          0         6         0            6
345-400                 0          0           1           0           1          345-400                      0          0         7         0            7
HOUR TOTALS     NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH WEST          TOTAL
PERIOD          LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG     LEG
200-300                 0          0           4           0           4          200-300                      0          0         9         0            9
215-315                 0          0           4           0           4          215-315                      0          0         9         0            9
230-330                 0          0           6           0           6          230-330                      0          0        17         0           17
245-345                 0          0           9           0           9          245-345                      0          0        21         0           21
300-400                 0          0           8           0           8          300-400                      0          0        28         0           28
WILTEC                                                                                                       Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                 NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                                COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                                   WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD"                                 7:00 AM TO 9:00 AM
INTERSECTION:                N/S        BROOKSIDE AVENUE
                             E/W        BROADWAY
CITY:                                   OAKLAND

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS         1           2           3           4          5          6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-715               0           0           0           0          8          0        0           1        4           1         22            0        36
715-730               0           0           0           4         12          1        1           1        2           1         85            0       107
730-745               0           0           0          13         17          1        3           1        2           2        151            0       190
745-800               0           0           0          14         18          0       16           2        4           3        178            0       235
800-815               0           0           0          17         21          0       15           1        6           3        119            0       182
815-830               0           0           0           8         19          0        0           0       10           0        108            0       145
830-845               0           0           0          12         23          3        1           1        8           3        120            0       171
845-900               0           0           0           6         17          0        3           1        7           3         84            0       121
HOUR TOTALS           1           2           3           4          5          6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD             SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH       WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
700-800               0           0           0          31         55          2       20           5       12           7        436            0       568
715-815               0           0           0          48         68          2       35           5       14           9        533            0       714
730-830               0           0           0          52         75          1       34           4       22           8        556            0       752
745-845               0           0           0          51         81          3       32           4       28           9        525            0       733
800-900               0           0           0          43         80          3       19           3       31           9        431            0       619

 AM PEAK HOUR:     730-830
                                                                                             52

                                           0           0           0                         75

                                                                                             1



                                                0

BROADWAY                                       556                           22        4          34

                                                8                                   BROOKSIDE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                   BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS    NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-715                  0          0           3           0            3          700-715                      1          0           3          0           4
715-730                  0          0           1           0            1          715-730                      1          0           2          0           3
730-745                  0          0           0           0            0          730-745                      0          0           1          0           1
745-800                  0          0           1           0            1          745-800                      3          0           2          0           5
800-815                  0          0           6           0            6          800-815                      0          0           4          0           4
815-830                  0          0           1           0            1          815-830                      2          0           2          0           4
830-845                  0          0           2           0            2          830-845                      0          0           0          0           0
845-900                  0          0           1           0            1          845-900                      0          0           2          0           2
HOUR TOTALS      NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL               HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD           LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                            PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
700-800                  0          0           5           0            5          700-800                      5          0           8          0           13
715-815                  0          0           8           0            8          715-815                      4          0           9          0           13
730-830                  0          0           8           0            8          730-830                      5          0           9          0           14
745-845                  0          0          10           0           10          745-845                      5          0           8          0           13
800-900                  0          0          10           0           10          800-900                      2          0           8          0           10
WILTEC                                                                                                     Phone: (626) 564-1944          Fax: (626) 564-0969
INTERSECTION CAR/PED/BIKE TRAFFIC COUNT RESULTS SUMMARY

CLIENT:                                NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:                               COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                                  WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
PERIOD"                                2:00 PM TO 4:00 PM
INTERSECTION:               N/S        BROOKSIDE AVENUE
                            E/W        BROADWAY
CITY:                                  OAKLAND

VEHICLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS        1           2           3           4          5         6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
200-215              0           0           0           7          4         0        1           1        3           1         44            0        61
215-230              0           0           0          15         10         0        2           2        2           6         47            0        84
230-245              0           0           0           8         19         0        1           1        2           3         48            0        82
245-300              0           0           0           7         14         0        1           0        4           1         46            0        73
300-315              0           0           0           7         19         0        1           0        7           3         51            0        88
315-330              0           0           0          14         30         0        2           1        4          10         67            0       128
330-345              0           0           0          13         19         0        0           1        1           5        106            0       145
345-400              0           0           0           3         27         2        2           0        2           1        136            0       173
HOUR TOTALS          1           2           3           4          5         6        7           8        9          10         11           12
PERIOD            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT        WBRT       WBTH      WBLT     NBRT        NBTH     NBLT        EBRT       EBTH         EBLT     TOTAL
200-300              0           0           0          37         47         0        5           4       11          11        185            0       300
215-315              0           0           0          37         62         0        5           3       15          13        192            0       327
230-330              0           0           0          36         82         0        5           2       17          17        212            0       371
245-345              0           0           0          41         82         0        4           2       16          19        270            0       434
300-400              0           0           0          37         95         2        5           2       14          19        360            0       534

 PM PEAK HOUR     300-400
                                                                                           37

                                          0           0           0                        95

                                                                                           2



                                               0

BROADWAY                                      360                          14        2          5

                                              19                                  BROOKSIDE AVENUE



PEDESTRIAN COUNTS                                                                 BICYCLE COUNTS
15 MIN COUNTS   NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              15 MIN COUNTS        NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD          LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
200-215                 0          0           0           0           0          200-215                      3          0           0          0           3
215-230                 0          0           0           0           0          215-230                      1          0           1          0           2
230-245                 0          0           1           0           1          230-245                      0          0           2          0           2
245-300                 0          0           0           0           0          245-300                      1          0           1          0           2
300-315                 0          0           1           0           1          300-315                      1          0           0          0           1
315-330                 0          0           2           0           2          315-330                      2          0           2          0           4
330-345                 0          0           1           0           1          330-345                      0          0           2          0           2
345-400                 0          0           2           0           2          345-400                      1          0           5          0           6
HOUR TOTALS     NORTH       EAST       SOUTH        WEST       TOTAL              HOUR TOTALS          NORTH       EAST       SOUTH       WEST       TOTAL
PERIOD          LEG         LEG        LEG          LEG                           PERIOD               LEG         LEG        LEG         LEG
200-300                 0          0           1           0           1          200-300                      5          0           4          0            9
215-315                 0          0           2           0           2          215-315                      3          0           4          0            7
230-330                 0          0           4           0           4          230-330                      4          0           5          0            9
245-345                 0          0           4           0           4          245-345                      4          0           5          0            9
300-400                 0          0           6           0           6          300-400                      4          0           9          0           13
WILTEC
VEHICLE PASSENGER OCCUPANCY FIELD SHEET

CLIENT:              NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:             COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
LOCATION:            CPS DRIVEWAY AT BROADWAY
DIRECTION:           INBOUND


                           ADULTS             YOUTH              CHILDREN
       700 AM
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
         715
                               1                 2                  0
                               0                 2                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               0                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
    SCHOOL VAN                 1                 5                  0
                               0                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 2                  0
                               0                 1                  0
         730
                               2                 2                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
    SCHOOL VAN                 1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  1
                               0                 0                  0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   0   0
             0   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   0   0
             1   1   0
             0   0   0
   745
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             0   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   2   0
             0   2   0
             0   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             0   3   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   7   0
             0   3   0
             1   3   0
             1   1   0
             0   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             0   3   0
             1   0   0
             1   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             2   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   4   1
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             2   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   2   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             0   5   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   2
             2   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   2   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             0   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             0   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   1
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   3   0
             1   1   0
             0   2   0
             0   2   0
             1   0   0
   800
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   2   0
             1   2   0
             1   2   0
             0   3   0
             0   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             0   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   4   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             1   3   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   1   0
             0   1   0
   815               0
             1   0
             1   0   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   1   0
             0   2   0
             0   4   0
   830
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
   845
             0   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
  900 AM
WILTEC
VEHICLE PASSENGER OCCUPANCY FIELD SHEET

CLIENT:              NELSON/NYGAARD TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
PROJECT:             COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL, OAKLAND
DATE:                WEDNESDAY MAY 1, 2013
LOCATION:            CPS DRIVEWAY AT BROADWAY
DIRECTION:           OUTBOUND


                           ADULTS             YOUTH              CHILDREN
       200 PM
    SCHOOL VAN                 1                 3                  0
    SCHOOL VAN                 1                 3                  0
         215
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               0                 2                  0
                               0                 1                  0
         230
                               1                 1                  1
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               0                 2                  0
         245
                               0                 1                  0
                               0                 2                  0
                               0                 2                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 1                  0
         300
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 1                  0
                               1                 0                  0
                               1                 0                  0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
   315
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             0   4   0
             1   1   0
             1   2   0
             0   4   0
             1   2   0
             1   1   0
             0   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             0   5   0
             1   1   0
             0   2   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             0   1   0
             0   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             1   0   0
             1   2   0
             0   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   1   0
             0   5   0
             0   2   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
             1   1   0
   330
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             0   1   0
             0   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   ?   ?
             1   1   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   1   0
             0   2   0
             0   2   0
             0   1   0
SCHOOL VAN   1   3   0
             1   0   0
             0   3   0
   345
             1   0   0
             3   0   0
             1   1   1
             1   0   0
             2   1   0
             2   0   0
             1   0   0
             1   0   0
  400 PM

