                         APPENDIX A
Notice of Preparation and Initial Study
            INITIAL STUDY

Proposed Valley Region High School #4




                 Prepared for:
     Los Angeles Unified School District
  Office of Environmental Health and Safety
          355 S Grand Ave, 15th Floor
         Los Angeles, California 90071

               Prepared by:
            Impact Sciences Inc.
     803 Camarillo Springs Road, Suite A
         Camarillo, California 93012




              November 2004
PROJECT INFORMATION

1.          Project Name

            Valley Region High School #4
2.          Lead Agency and Address

            Los Angeles Unified School District
            Office of Environmental Health and Safety
            355 South Grand Ave, 15th Floor
            Los Angeles, California 90071

3.          Contact Person and Phone Number
            Jason Ricks, Project Manager/Consultant; (213) 633-8423

4.          Project Sponsor and Address
            Los Angeles Unified School District
            Facilities Services Division
            333 South Grand Avenue, 11th Floor
            Los Angeles, California 90071

5.          Project Location

            The project would be located on the site of the former Granada Hills Community Hospital at
            10445 Balboa Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles.1 The site is within the block bounded by
            North Balboa Boulevard on the east, West Devonshire Street on the south, North Genesta Avenue
            on the west and West San Jose Street on the north.2 The site is composed of four land parcels
            identified by the Los Angeles County Tax Assessor as parcels 2695-020-022, 2695-020-023, 2695-
            021-020, and 2695-021-025.3

6.          Project Setting

            The project site is approximately 11.3 acres and contains a 201-bed hospital facility, an
            approximately 19,000-square-foot medical office building, a parking structure, and other
            accessory structures.4 The site is adjacent to retail uses along Balboa Boulevard and a residential
            neighborhood to the north and west.5 The site is approximately one and a half miles west of
            Interstate 405 Freeway and approximately one mile south of State Highway 118.6

            The project site is within the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan Area of the City of Los
            Angeles.7 The site is designated as Community Commercial on the Community Plan land use
            map.8 The City has zoned the site C2, Commercial Zone.9



1     Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
2     The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, page 501.
3     Zone Information and Map Access System (ZIMAS), http://zimas.lacity.org/, Department of City Planning,
      City of Los Angeles.
4     Granada Hills Community Hospital property information, Madison Partners.
5     Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
6     The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, page 501.
7     Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
8     General Plan Land Use Map, Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, City of Los Angeles Department of
      City Planning, plot date January 6, 2004.
9     Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.


LAUSD                                                   1                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
7.          Project Description

            LAUSD proposes to construct and operate a new high school campus on the project site. The
            CEQA review process for this project is tiered off of the Program EIR for LAUSD's New School
            Construction Program.10 The Program EIR recommended significance thresholds, mitigation
            measures, and performance standards to be used in project specific CEQA documents such as
            this one.11

            The proposed school would contain three small learning centers of approximately 405 seats and
            14 classrooms each, plus three separate joint use classrooms, for a campus total of 1,215 seats and
            45 classrooms. The proposed high school may also accommodate evening adult education
            classes. The high school would also include facilities for performing arts/music; physical
            education/athletics; library/media services; food services, career center; and space for accessory
            uses such as administration areas, health offices, restrooms and storerooms. It is possible that, in
            addition to the proposed high school, a portion of the site would be used for LAUSD operational
            uses including the LAUSD Police Department. The proposed site plan for the project is still being
            developed.

            The school would operate on a two-semester schedule. The proposed school is intended to
            relieve overcrowding at existing schools in the surrounding community, specifically at Monroe
            High School. The project is scheduled for completion by the beginning of the fall 2010 school
            year.

            Project construction would require the demolition of most of the existing on-site uses. However,
            some existing structures may be retained if it is found to be feasible. The existing parking
            structure may be retained to provide parking for the project. The steel framing of the partially
            completed hospital addition may be retained as the skeleton of the proposed school building.
            Additionally, an existing single-story structure at the western end of the site may be retained for
            use as a substation of the LAUSD Police.

8.          Responsible and Reviewing Agencies

            Responsible Agencies ­ Agency Action

            California Office of Public School Construction ­ Approval of Funding
            California Department of Education ­ Approval of Final Site Plan
            California Department of Toxic Substance Control ­ Determination of No Further Action/
                     Oversight of Clean-Up Actions
            California Division of the State Architect ­ Approval of Construction Drawings
            City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation ­ Approval of Traffic Study

            Reviewing Agencies

            State of California Agencies
            · Office of Historic Preservation
            · Department of Transportation
            · Department of Conservation
            · Department of Fish and Game
            · Department of Parks and Recreation
            · Native American Heritage Commission
            · State Lands Commission
            · State Allocation Board




10    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 1-1.
11    Ibid, page ES-1.


LAUSD                                                    2                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                         November 2004
            Regional Agencies
            · Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board
            · South Coast Air Quality Management District
            · Southern California Association of Governments

            City of Los Angeles
            · Planning Department
            · Department of Public Works
            · Department of Building and Safety
            · Department of Parks and Recreation
            · Bureau of Engineering
            · Bureau of Sanitation
            · Department of Water and Power
            · Office of the Chief of Police
            · Fire Department
            · Department of Environmental Affairs

9.          Preparers

            Lead Agency

            Los Angeles Unified School District
            Office of Environmental Health and Safety
            355 South Grand Ave, 15th Floor
            Los Angeles, California 90071
            · Joe Gibson, CEQA Program Manager/Consultant
            · Jason Ricks, Project Manager/Consultant

            CEQA Consultant

            Impact Sciences
            803 Camarillo Springs Road, Suite A
            Camarillo, California 93012
            · Tony Locacciato, Principal
            · Ned Baldwin, Project Manager
            · Lucy Barraza, Staff Planner
            · Paul Manzer, Graphics
            · Leslie Fitzgerald, Production Coordinator
            · Leslie Smirnoff, Production Coordinator




LAUSD                                                 3          Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                   November 2004
10.         References

            City of Los Angeles General Plan.

            City of Los Angeles Planning and Zoning Code.

            Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, Department of City Planning, City of Los Angeles.

            Health Risk Assessment for Valley Region High School No.4, Weston Solutions Inc., September 2004.

            New School Construction Program Draft Environmental Impact Report, State Clearinghouse No.
                  2003051023, prepared by Aspen Environmental Group for Los Angeles Unified School
                  District, March 2004.

            Report of Geologic-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, Proposed Valley Region High School No.4, Mactec,
                    September 15, 2004.

            Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, Meredith &
                    Associates, October 22, 2004.

            Pipeline Safety Hazard Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, Meredith & Associates,
                     December 5, 2003.

            School Site Selection and Approval Guide, California Department of Education, School Facilities
                    Planning Division, 2000.

            Zone Information and Map Access System (ZIMAS), http://zimas.lacity.org/, Department of City
                    Planning, City of Los Angeles.




LAUSD                                                    4                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED:

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one
impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" or is "Potentially Significant Unless Mitigated: as indicated
by the checklist on the following pages.
     Aesthetics                                Agricultural Resources                 Air Quality
     Biological Resources                      Cultural Resources                     Geology/Soils
     Hazards/Hazardous Materials               Hydrology/Water Quality                Land Use/Planning
     Mineral Resources                         Noise                                  Population/Housing
     Public Services                           Recreation                             Transportation/Traffic
     Utilities/Service Systems                 Mandatory Findings of Significance



DETERMINATION

On the basis of the initial evaluation:

                        I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the
                        environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

                        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
                        environment, there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the
                        project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED
                        NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

                        I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an
                        ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

                        I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or
                        "potentially significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one
                        effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable
                        legal standards, and 2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier
                        analysis as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is
                        required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.

                        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
                        environment, because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately
                        in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and
                        (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE
                        DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the
                        proposed project, nothing further is required.




Signature:                                                               Date:
                        Angelo J. Bellomo
                        Director, Office of Environmental Health and Safety
                        Los Angeles Unified School District
                        CEQA Officer




LAUSD                                                       5                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                           November 2004
EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

1)        A brief explanation is required for all answers except "No Impact" answers that are adequately
          supported by the information sources a lead agency cites in the parentheses following each
          question. A "No Impact" answer is adequately supported if the referenced information sources
          show that the impact simply does not apply to projects like the one involved (e.g., the project falls
          outside a fault rupture zone). A "No Impact" answer should be explained where it is based on
          project-specific factors as well as general standards (e.g., the project will not expose sensitive
          receptors to pollutants, based on a project-specific screening analysis).

2)        All answers must take account of the whole action involved, including off site as well as on site,
          cumulative as well as project level, indirect as well as direct, and construction as well as
          operational impacts.

3)        Once the lead agency has determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then the
          checklist answers must indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less than significant
          with mitigation, or less than significant. "Potentially Significant Impact" is appropriate if there is
          substantial evidence that an effect may be significant. If there are one or more "Potentially
          Significant Impact" entries when the determination is made, an EIR is required.

4)        "Negative Declaration: Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated" applies where the
          incorporation of mitigation measures has reduced an effect from "Potentially Significant Impact" to
          a "Less Than Significant Impact."  The lead agency must describe the mitigation measures, and
          briefly explain how they reduce the effect to a less than significant level (mitigation measures from
          "Earlier Analysis," as described in [5] below, may be cross-referenced).

5)       Earlier analyses may be used where, pursuant to the tiering, program EIR, or other CEQA process,
         an effect has been adequately analyzed in an earlier EIR or negative declaration. Section
         15063(c)(3)(D). In this case, a brief discussion should identify the following:

          a) Earlier Analysis Used. Identify and state where they are available for review.
          b) Impacts Adequately Addressed. Identify which effects from the above checklist were within
             the scope of and adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal
             standards, and state whether such effects were addressed by mitigation measures based on the
             earlier analysis.
          c) Mitigation Measures. For effects that are "Less Than Significant with Mitigation Measures
             Incorporated," describe the mitigation measures which were incorporated or refined from the
             earlier document and the extent to which they address site-specific conditions for the project.

6)        Lead agencies are encouraged to incorporate into the checklist references to information sources for
          potential impacts (e.g., general plans, zoning ordinances). Reference to a previously prepared or
          outside document should, where appropriate, include a reference to the page or pages where the
          statement is substantiated.

7)        Supporting Information Sources: A source list should be attached, and other sources used or
          individuals contacted should be cited in the discussion.

8)        This is only a suggested form, and lead agencies are free to use different formats; however, lead
          agencies should normally address the questions from this checklist that are relevant to a project's
          environmental effects in whatever format is selected.

9)        The explanation of each issue should identify:

          a)       the significance criteria or threshold, if any, used to evaluate each question; and
          b)       the mitigation measure identified, if any, to reduce the impact to less than significant.




LAUSD                                                        6                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                              November 2004
1.    AESTHETICS. Would the project:
                                                                             Less Than
                                                              Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                                                         No
                                                              Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                       Impact
                                                                Impact     Incorporation     Impact

      a.    Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic
            vista?

      b.    Substantially damage scenic resources,
            including, but not limited to trees, rock
            outcroppings and historic buildings within a
            state scenic highway?

      c . Substantially degrade the existing visual
          character or quality of the site and its
          surroundings?

      d . Create a new source of substantial light or
          glare that would adversely affect day or
          nighttime views in the area?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. No scenic vista has been identified in local land use plans at or
            near the site.12 Views of mountains to the north and east are possible from some vantage points
            in the area. However, the site contains multi-story structures and a perimeter wall along the
            western edge of the site that block views across the site.13 The project would develop the site
            with new structures and would likely include a perimeter wall. As such, the opportunities for
            views from vantage points adjacent to the site would remain equivalent to existing conditions.
            As such, the project's impact on scenic vistas would be less than significant, and no further study
            of this issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is not located adjacent to a scenic highway or
            other identified scenic resource.14 As such, the project impacts would not substantially damage
            scenic resources. Impacts on scenic resources would be less than significant, and no further study
            of this issue is required.

c.          Potentially Significant Impact. The project would redevelop an urban site that had previously
            been developed as a hospital and medical office building. LAUSD applies a variety of design
            standards to new school construction in order to create schools that are aesthetically compatible
            with the neighborhood in which they are located. This includes the incorporation of a set of Best
            Management Practices (BMPs) during site selection, design, construction, and operation.15 These
            BMPS include design standards that would avoid any impacts that would degrade the existing
            visual quality of the site or the surroundings. However, the site features two existing
            murals--one in a courtyard of the hospital building and the other on the south facade of the
            parking structure. These artworks may be protected by the California Art Preservation Act and
            the Federal Visual Artists Rights Act. As a result, the potential impacts of the project to the
            murals shall be studied in the EIR.


12    Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, City of Los Angeles Department of City Planning.
13    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
14    City of Los Angeles General Plan; Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages
      3.13-1 through 3.13-4.
15    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, Appendix B.1.


LAUSD                                                   7                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
d.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project would incorporate a set of Best Management
            Practices (BMPs) during site selection, design, construction, and operation.16 These BMPS
            include design standards that would avoid any impacts that would adversely affect day or
            nighttime views. As such, the project impacts on day or nighttime views would be less than
            significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: Further study is required of the potential impacts of removing the existing mural in the
courtyard of the hospital building and the mural on the southern façade of the parking structure. No
further study is required regarding scenic vistas, scenic resources, visual character of the surroundings,
light and glare, or other aesthetic impacts.




16    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, Appendix B.1.


LAUSD                                                 8                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
2.    AGRICULTURE RESOURCES. Would the project
      (In determining whether impacts to agricultural
      resources are significant environmental effects, lead
      agencies may refer to the California Agricultural Potentially    Less Than
                                                                    Significant with Less Than     No
      Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997) Significant                   Significant
                                                                       Mitigation                Impact
      prepared by the California Dept. of Conservation as   Impact   Incorporation     Impact
      an optional model to use in assessing impacts on
      agriculture and farmland):

      a.    Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or
            Farmland of Statewide Importance (Farmland),
            as shown on the maps prepared pursuant to
            the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring
            Program of the California Resources Agency, to
            non-agricultural use?

      b.    Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural
            use, or a Williamson Act contract?

      c . Involve other changes in the existing
          environment, which due to their location or
          nature, could result in conversion of Farmland,
          to non-agricultural use?


Explanation:

a.          No Impact. The project site is in an urban setting and was previously developed as an urban,
            non-agricultural use.17 The project site is within an area designated as Urban and Built-Up Land
            by the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program.18 Therefore, the project would not convert
            Farmland to non-agricultural use, and no further study of this issue is required.

b.          No Impact. The project site is zoned C2, Commercial.19 The project site is in an urban setting
            and was previously developed as an urban, non-agricultural use.20 Therefore, the project would
            have no impact on agricultural zoning or Williamson Act contracts. No further study of this
            issue is required.

c.          No Impact. The site is within LAUSD District 1, which is "almost devoid of any agricultural
            areas."21 The project site is in an urban setting with no Farmland within several miles.22
            Therefore, the project would not result in the conversion of Farmland to non-agricultural uses.
            No further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding the project's impacts on agricultural resources.




17    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
18    http://www.consrv.ca.gov/DLRP/fmmp/overview/survey_area_map.htm.
19    Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
20    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
21    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.12-1.
22    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.


LAUSD                                                       9                                Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                               November 2004
3.    AIR QUALITY. Where available, the significance
      criteria established by the applicable air quality              Less Than
      management or air pollution control district may Potentially Significant with Less Than     No
      be relied upon to make the following Significant                Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                Impact
                                                         Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      determinations. Would the project:

      a.    Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the
            applicable Air Quality Attainment Plan or
            Congestion Management Plan?

      b.    Violate any air quality standard or contribute
            substantially to an existing or projected air
            quality violation?

      c . Result in a cumulatively considerable net
          increase of any criteria pollutant for which the
          project region is non-attainment under an
          applicable federal or state ambient air quality
          standard (including releasing emissions that
          exceed quantitative thresholds for ozone
          precursors)?

      d. Create or contribute to a non-stationary source
         "hotspot" (primarily carbon monoxide)?

      e.    Expose sensitive receptors to substantial
            pollutant concentrations?

      f.    Create objectionable odors         affecting     a
            substantial number of people?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. The Program EIR determined that the New School Construction
            Program would not conflict with or obstruct implementation of the South Coast Air Quality
            Management District (SCAQMD) Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) or the Metropolitan
            Transportation Authority's (MTA) Congestion Management Plan (CMP).23 The project would
            conform to the standards and guidelines of the New School Construction Program. Therefore,
            the project would have a less than significant impact with respect to the implementation of the
            SCAQMD AQMP or the MTA CMP. No further study of this issue is required.

b.          Potentially Significant Impact. The project would generate air pollutants as a result of
            construction and operation-related emissions. Construction emissions are generated by
            construction equipment and from dust stirred up during construction activity. Operational
            emissions are generated by vehicle trips associated with the project. The SCAQMD has
            established standards for air quality constituents generated by construction and by operational
            activities for such pollutants as ozone (O3), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulfur
            dioxide (SO2), and particulate matter (PM10).24

            Until the construction program is fully evaluated and until the traffic analysis is completed, it
            cannot be determined whether the project would result in or contribute to a violation of an air
            quality standard. Therefore, this subject shall be studied further in the EIR.

23    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.2-14.
24    South Coast Air Quality Management District, CEQA Air Quality Handbook, November 1993, page 6-4.


LAUSD                                                   10                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
c.          Potentially Significant Impact. The South Coast Air Basin is in non-attainment for ozone, PM10
            and carbon monoxide.25 The construction and operation related vehicle emissions of the project
            would generate quantities of these pollutants. Until the construction program is fully evaluated
            and until the traffic analysis is completed, it cannot be determined whether the project-related
            emissions would be cumulatively considerable. Therefore, this subject shall be studied further in
            the EIR.

d.          Less Than Significant Impact. The SCAQMD has established thresholds for CO hotspots
            created by vehicle trips.26 Based on other high school projects, LAUSD has determined that it is
            very unlikely that any of its school projects would cause a significant CO hotspot impact.27
            Therefore, impacts are less than significant, and no further study is necessary.

e.          Potentially Significant Impact. The project itself would be a sensitive receptor. The project is
            adjacent to Balboa Boulevard, a major roadway featuring substantial traffic volumes and
            commercial uses that emit pollutants. A Health Risk Assessment was conducted for the project
            site28 and evaluated the health risks posed by the potential hazardous air emissions generated by
            land uses in the vicinity of the project site. The assessment concluded that the health risks for
            adults and students were within acceptable limits. The potential impact of vehicle emissions
            from traffic on Balboa Boulevard shall be studied in the EIR.

f.          Less Than Significant Impact. Emissions from construction equipment, architectural coating,
            and paving activities may generate objectionable odors; however, these odors would be
            temporary in nature and are not expected to affect a substantial number of people.29 The only
            operational odor sources associated with the project would be kitchen or waste management
            activities.30 Proper LAUSD maintenance and waste management practices would reduce the
            potential for objectionable odors during project operations to a less than significant level.31 No
            further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: The EIR will contain further study of the pollutant emissions associated with project
construction and with vehicle trips on surrounding roadways. Further study is not necessary with
respect to the SCAQMD AQMP, MTA CMP, CO hot spots, or objectionable odors.




25    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.2-6 through 3.2-7.
26    Ibid., page 3.2-19.
27    Ibid., page 3.2-20.
28    Weston Solutions, Health Risk Assessment for Valley Region High School #4, September 2004.
29    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.2-22.
30    Ibid., page 3.2-22.
31    Ibid., page 3.2-23.


LAUSD                                                   11                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
4.   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES. Would the project:                                          Less Than
                                                                      Potentially   Significant with      Less Than
                                                                                                                               No
                                                                      Significant      Mitigation         Significant
                                                                                                                             Impact
                                                                        Impact       Incorporation          Impact
     a.    Adversely impact, either directly or indirectly or
           through habitat modifications, any endangered
           threatened or rare species as listed in Title 14 of the
           California Code of Regulations (Section 670.2 or
           670.5) or in Title 50 of the Code of Federal
           Regulations (Section 17.11 or 17.12)?

     b.    Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or
           through habitat modifications, on any species
           identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status
           species in local or regional plans, policies, or
           regulations, or by the California Department of Fish
           and Game or US Fish and Wildlife Service?

     c . Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian
         habitat or other sensitive natural community
         identified in local or regional plans, policies, and
         regulations or by the California Department of Fish
         and Game or US Fish and Wildlife Service?

     d. Have a substantial adverse effect on federally
        protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the
        Clean Water Act (including, but not limited to,
        marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct
        removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other
        means?

     e.    Interfere substantially with the movement of any
           native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or
           with established native resident or migratory wildlife
           corridors, or impede the use of native wildlife
           nursery sites?

     f.    Conflict with any local policies or ordinances
           protecting biological resources, such as a tree
           preservation policy or ordinance?

     g.    Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat
           Conservation Plan, Natural Community
           Conservation Plan, or other approved local, regional,
           or state habitat conservation plan?




     LAUSD                                                  12                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
     Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is currently developed with an urban use, is
            located in an urban setting, and does not contain any natural habitat of endangered, threatened,
            or rare species.32 Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study of this
            issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is currently developed with an urban use, is
            located in an urban setting, and does not contain any habitat of candidate, sensitive or special
            status species.33 Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study of this
            issue is required.

c.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is currently developed with an urban use, is
            located in an urban setting, and does not contain any riparian habitat, or other natural habitat.34
            Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

d.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is currently developed with an urban use, is
            located in an urban setting, and does not contain any wetlands.35 Therefore, impacts would be
            less than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

e.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site does not contain any watercourse or greenbelt for
            wildlife movement.36 The site does contain trees that may provide nesting sites for birds. The
            project would result in the removal of existing on-site trees and possibly the removal of some of
            the existing street trees. Removal of existing tress could impact nesting birds. The project would
            incorporate Mitigation Measure B-1.4 of the Program EIR.37 With implementation of this
            mitigation measure, the project's impacts on native wildlife nursery sites would be reduced to a
            less than significant level. No further study of this issue is required.

f.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project site contains ornamental and shade trees, and the
            adjoining streetscape features street trees. The project would result in the removal of existing on-
            site trees and possibly the removal of some of the existing street trees. The policies and
            regulations of the City of Los Angeles Department of Public Works would be followed in the
            removal and replacement of any street trees. The project would be landscaped with shade and
            ornamental tress to the specifications of LAUSD. As such, impacts to trees would be less than
            significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

g.          No Impact. The site is not within an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community
            Conservation Plan, or similar plan.38 The site is not within or proximate to any Significant
            Ecological Area, Land Trust, or Conservation Plan.39 No further analysis required.

Further Study: No further study of biological resources is necessary.




32    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
33    Ibid.
34    Ibid.
35    Ibid.
36    Ibid.
37    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.4-12.
38    Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
39    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 3.4-3 and 3.4-16.


LAUSD                                                   13                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
5.    CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the project:                                     Less Than
                                                                  Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                  Significant    Mitigation    Significant   No
                                                                    Impact     Incorporation     Impact    Impact
      a.  Cause a substantial adverse change in the
          significance of a historical resource as defined
          in §15064.5?
      b. Cause a substantial adverse change in the
          significance of an archaeological resource
          pursuant to §15064.5?
      c . Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
          paleontological resource or site or unique
          geologic feature?
      d . Disturb any human remains, including those
          interred outside of formal cemeteries?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. The oldest structure on the site dates from 1965.40 A review of
            the historical landmarks for Los Angeles County indicates that the site does not contain any
            historic landmarks.41 In addition, the project site is not within a City of Los Angeles Historic
            Preservation Overlay Zone.42 No further study is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. The site has been subject to construction activity at various times
            during the past 40 years,43 and no known archaeological resource occurs on the site. Though it is
            unlikely that archeological resources are present on the site, it is possible that construction
            activity could unearth archeological resources. If archeological resources are discovered during
            construction, LAUSD shall implement procedures for evaluating and appropriately treating the
            archeological resources.44 With implementation of these LAUSD procedures, impacts would be
            less than significant. No further study is required.

c.          Less Than Significant Impact. The site has been subject to construction activity at various times
            during the past 40 years,45 and no known paleontological resource occurs on the site. No further
            study is required. Though it is unlikely that paleontological resources are present on the site, it is
            possible that construction activity could unearth paleontological resources. If archeological
            resources are discovered during construction, LAUSD shall implement procedures for evaluating
            and appropriately treating the paleontological resources.46 With implementation of these
            LAUSD procedures, impacts would be less than significant. No further study is required.

d.          Less Than Significant Impact. The site has been subject to construction activity at various times
            during the past 40 years,47 and no human remains are present on the site. Though it is unlikely

40    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region          High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 3.
41    Ibid., page 8.
42    Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
43    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region          High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 8.
44    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.5-19.
45    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region          High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 8.
46    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.5-21.
47    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region          High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 8.


LAUSD                                                      14                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                              November 2004
            that human remains are present on the site, it is possible that construction activity could unearth
            previously unknown human remains. If this were to occur during construction, LAUSD shall
            implement the process specified by the California Health and Safety Code.48                   With
            implementation of this process, any impacts would be less than significant. No further study is
            required.

Further Study: No further study of cultural resources is necessary.




48    California Health and Safety Code, Section 7050.5.


LAUSD                                                      15                         Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
6.    GEOLOGY AND SOILS. Would the project:                                    Less Than
                                                                Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                                                           No
                                                                Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                         Impact
                                                                  Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Expose people or structures to potential
            substantial adverse effects, including the risk
            of loss, injury, or death involving:

            ·      Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as
                   delineated on the most recent Alquist-
                   Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Map
                   issued by the State Geologist for the area
                   or based on other substantial evidence of
                   a known fault? Refer to Division of Mines
                   and Geology Special Publication 42.

            ·      Strong seismic ground shaking?

            ·      Seismic-related ground failure, including
                   liquefaction?

            ·      Landslides?

      b.    Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of
            topsoil?

      c.    Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is
            unstable, or that would become unstable as a
            result of the project, and potentially result in
            on-or off-site landslide, lateral spreading,
            subsidence, liquefaction or collapse?

      d . Be located on expansive soil, as defined in
          Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building Code
          (1994), creating substantial risks to life or
          property?

      e.    Have soils incapable of adequately supporting
            the use of septic tanks or alternative
            wastewater disposal systems where sewers
            are not available for the disposal of
            wastewater?




LAUSD                                                     16                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. The Southern California region is seismically active. The site is
            located in the north central portion of the San Fernando Valley near a number of known active
            fault systems.49 The site is not within a currently established Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault
            Zone.50 There are no known active or potentially active faults with the potential for surface fault
            rupture located directly beneath or projecting toward the site and potential for surface rupture at
            the site is considered low.51 Therefore, risks from the rupture of a known earthquake fault are
            less than significant. No further study of this issue is required.

            The site is located in an area that has historically experienced strong ground shaking and could
            experience strong ground shaking in the future.52 Detectable ground shaking in the San
            Fernando Valley may be caused by earthquakes on a number of faults in the area.53 The project
            would be built in compliance with the California Building Code and other regulations, plans and
            standards set forth in the Program EIR;54 thereby, reducing the risk of substantial adverse effects
            to a less than significant level. No further study of this issue is required.

            The site is not within an area identified as having a potential for liquefaction, and ground water
            has historically been at a depth greater than 15 meters (50 feet).55 Therefore, the potential for
            liquefaction and the associated ground deformation beneath the site is considered low.
            Therefore, the risks from seismic-related ground failure are less than significant. No further
            study of this issue is required.

            The site is not within an area identified as having a potential for seismic slope instability, and
            there are no known landslides near the site, nor is the site in the path of any known potential
            landslides.56 Furthermore, the relatively flat topography at the site precludes both stability
            problems and lurching. As such, no impact from landslides would occur. No further study of
            this issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. Construction of the proposed project would result in ground
            surface disruption during excavation, grading, and trenching that would create the potential for
            erosion to occur.57 Since the proposed project is greater than 1 acre, LAUSD would prepare and
            comply with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan, which would feature erosion control
            measures.58 In addition, LAUSD would comply with the Stormwater Construction Activities
            General Permit and obtain a NPDES permit.59 Compliance with the above and other regulations,
            plans and standards set forth in the Program EIR60 would reduce all impacts due to soil erosion
            to a less than significant level. No further study of this issue is required.




49    Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, pages 3, 5 through 10.
50    Ibid., page 10.
51    Ibid., pages 10 through 11.
52    Ibid., page 12.
53    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, Table 3.6-2, page 3.6-5.
54    Ibid., pages 3.6-9 through 3.6-13.
55    Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, page 15.
56    Ibid., page 12.
57    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.6-14.
58    Clean Water Act, Section 402.
59    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 2-28 through 2-29, 3.6-14.
60    Ibid., pages 2-28 through 2-29, 3.6-9 through 3.6-10.


LAUSD                                                    17                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                            November 2004
c.          Less Than Significant. The dense granular soils identified on the site in previous exploratory
            borings are not in the loose- to medium-dense category, which typically causes seismic-induced
            settlement.61 Based on the uniform soil conditions at the site, any seismic settlement would be
            uniform across the building area, and has been estimated at less than 1/2 inch.62 Therefore, the
            potential for seismic-induced settlement is low. The site is not within an area of known
            subsidence associated with fluid withdrawal (ground water or petroleum), peat oxidization, or
            hydrocompaction.63 The site is not within an area identified as having a potential for seismic
            slope instability, and there are no known landslides near the site, nor is the site in the path of any
            known potential landslides.64 As such, impacts associated with an unstable geological unit or
            unstable soils would be less than significant. No further study of this issue is required.

d.          Less Than Significant. Based on the uniform soil conditions at the site, any seismic settlement
            would be uniform across the building area, and has been estimated at less than 1/2 inch.65 Prior
            to the commencement of construction, a preliminary soil evaluation would be conducted to
            determine the potential for shrink-swell related damage.66 If the evaluation indicates risk of
            damage as a result of existing shrink-swell potential, a detailed evaluation, complete with site-
            specific measures to reduce the risk of damage will be prepared, pursuant to Title 24 of the
            California Building Standards Code. Compliance with the measures determined in this
            evaluation would reduce risk to life and property due to expansive soils to a less than significant
            level.67 No further study of this issue is required.

e.          Less Than Significant. Existing sewer lines would be used for the disposal of wastewater.68 As
            a result, septic tanks or alternative wastewater systems would not be used. Therefore, no impact
            with regard to the capability of soils to adequately support the use of septic tanks or alternative
            wastewater disposal systems would result. No further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential geology and soil impacts.




61    Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, page 13.
62    Ibid., page 13.
63    Ibid., page 14.
64    Ibid., page 12.
65    Ibid., page 13.
66    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.6-14.
67    Ibid., pages 3.6-9 through 3.6-10, 2-24 through 2-25.
68    Ibid., page 2-30.


LAUSD                                                     18                                  Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                                November 2004
7.    HAZARDS/HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Would                                       Less Than
                                                                Potentially Significant with Less Than
      the project:                                                                                         No
                                                                Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                         Impact
                                                                  Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Create a significant hazard to the public or the
            environment through the routine transport, use,
            or disposal of hazardous materials?

      b.    Create a significant hazard to the public or the
            environment through reasonably foreseeable
            upset and accident conditions involving the
            release of hazardous materials into the
            environment?

      c.    Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous
            or acutely hazardous materials, substances, or
            waste within one-quarter mile of an existing or
            proposed school?

      d. Be located on a site which is included on a list of
         hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant to
         Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a
         result, would it create a significant hazard to the
         public or the environment?

      e.    For a project located within an airport land use
            plan or, where such a plan has not been
            adopted, within two miles of a public airport or
            public use airport, would the project result in a
            safety hazard for people residing or working in
            the project area?

      f.    For a project within the vicinity of a private
            airstrip, would the project result in a safety
            hazard for people residing or working in the
            project area?

      g.    Impair implementation of or physically interfere
            with an adopted emergency response plan or
            emergency evacuation plan?

      h. Expose people or structures to a significant risk
         of loss, injury, or death involving wildland fires,
         including where wildlands are adjacent to
         urbanized areas or where residences are
         intermixed with wildlands?




LAUSD                                                  19                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
7.    HAZARDS/HAZARDOUS MATERIALS                                                 Less Than
                                                                   Potentially Significant with Less Than
      (continued). Would the project:                                                                         No
                                                                   Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                            Impact
                                                                     Impact     Incorporation     Impact

      i.    Be located on a site that is (a) a current of former
            hazardous waste disposal site or solid waste
            disposal site and, if so, has the waste been
            removed; (b) a hazardous substance release site
            identified by the State Department of Health
            Services in a current list adopted pursuant to
            Section 25356 of Division 20 of the Health and
            Safety Code; or (c) a site that contains one or
            more pipelines, situated underground or above
            ground, which carries materials or hazardous
            wastes, unless the pipeline is a natural gas line
            which is used only to supply natural gas to that
            school or neighborhood?


      j.    Be located within one-fourth mile of any
            facilities, which might be reasonably anticipated
            to emit hazardous or acutely hazardous
            materials, substances or waste?


      k.    Be located on a site where the property line less
            than the following distance from the edge of
            respective power line easement:
             1.    100 feet of a 50-133kV line,
             2.    150 feet of a 220-230 kV line, or
            3.     350 feet of a 500-550 kV line?


      l.    Be located on a site that is within 1,500 feet of a
            railroad track easement?


      m. Be located on a site that is adjacent or near to a
         major arterial roadway or freeway that may
         pose a safety hazard?


      n. Be located on a site that is near a reservoir,
         water storage tanks or high-pressure water
         lines?


      o.    Be located within 1,500 feet of a pipeline that
            may pose a safety hazard?


      p. Be located on a site that contains, or is near,
         propane tanks that can pose a safety hazard?




LAUSD                                                     20                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                             November 2004
7.    HAZARDS/HAZARDOUS MATERIALS                                                Less Than
                                                                  Potentially Significant with Less Than
      (continued). Would the project:                                                                        No
                                                                  Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                           Impact
                                                                    Impact     Incorporation     Impact

      q.    Be located on a site that does not have a
            proportionate length to width ratio to
            accommodate the building layout, parking and
            play fields that can be safely supervised?


      r.    Be located on a site where the existing or
            proposed zoning of the surrounding properties
            is incompatible with schools and may pose a
            health or safety risk to students?


      s.    Be located on a site with a traffic pattern for
            school buses that can pose a safety hazard?


      t.    Be located on a site that is within 2,000 feet of a
            significant disposal of hazardous waste?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. Operations of the project would involve very little use of
            hazardous materials though construction activities would involve the transportation, use, and
            disposal of limited quantities of hazardous materials.69 The project site contains potential
            Asbestos-Containing Material (ACM).70 In removing any existing hazardous materials, including
            ACM, from the site, LAUSD would implement the requirements of the Department of Toxic
            Substance Control (DTSC).71 The use, transport, and disposal of any hazardous materials during
            operations of the project would be subject to federal, state, and local health and safety
            requirement. As such, the potential impacts of the project would be less than significant, and no
            further study of this issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. No upset or accident conditions resulting from the project that
            would create a significant hazard to the public are reasonably foreseeable.72 As such, the
            potential impacts of the project would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue
            is required.

c.          Less Than Significant Impact. Operations of the project would involve very little use of
            hazardous materials though construction activities would involve the transportation, use, and
            disposal of limited quantities of hazardous materials.73 As such, the potential impacts of the
            project would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.




69    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.8-11.
70    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 4.
71    Interim Guidance for Evaluating Lead-Based Paint and Asbestos-Containing Materials at Proposed School Sites,
      DTSC 2001.
72    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.8-12.
73    Ibid., page 3.8-11.


LAUSD                                                    21                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                            November 2004
d.          Less Than Significant Impact. Review of the lists of hazardous material sites reveals that the
            project site currently contains an underground storage tank, and in its former use as a hospital
            was a generator of small quantities of hazardous wastes.74 Two other underground storage
            tanks were removed during the 1990s.75 The underground storage tank that remains on the site
            may be reused or removed. If the tank were not reused, it would be removed prior to
            construction under the oversight of the Los Angeles Fire Department.76 As such, the potential
            impacts of the project would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is
            required.

e.          No Impact. The project site is not located within two miles of an airport.77 As such, no impact
            would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

f.          No Impact. The project site is not located within two miles of a private airstrip.78 As such, no
            impact would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

g.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project would conform to applicable local ordinances and
            LAUSD BMPs.79 By conforming to these regulatory and programmatic controls, the project
            would not cause any interference with an emergency response plan or emergency evacuation
            plan. As such, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is
            required.

h.          No Impact. The project site is located in a developed, urban portion of the City of Los Angeles.
            The surrounding area does not contain dense areas of flammable brush, grass, or trees. In
            addition, the project would comply with local fire code requirements and California Department
            of Education requirements.80 As such, impacts would be less than significant, and no further
            study of this issue is required.

i.          No Impact. The project site is not located on a site that is (a) a current of former hazardous waste
            disposal site or solid waste disposal site; (b) a hazardous substance release site identified by the
            State Department of Health Services in a current list adopted pursuant to Section 25356 of
            Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code; or (c) a site that contains one or more pipelines,
            situated underground or above ground, which carries materials or hazardous wastes.81 As such,
            no impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

j.          No Impact. The project is not located within one-quarter mile of a facility that might be
            reasonably anticipated to emit hazardous or acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste.82
            As such, no impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.




74    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 4.
75    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 11.
76    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.8-14.
77    The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, pages 500 through 502,
      531.
78    Ibid., pages 500 through 502, 531.
79    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.8-16.
80    Ibid., page 3.8-17.
81    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, Table 2.
82    Ibid., Table 2; Weston Solutions, Health Risk Assessment for Valley Region High School No.4, September 2004.


LAUSD                                                   22                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
k.          No Impact. The project site is not within 100 feet of a 50-133kV line, 150 feet of a 220-230 kV line,
            or 350 feet of a 500-550 kV line.83 As such, no impacts would occur, and no further study of this
            issue is required.

l.          No Impact. The project site is not located within 1,500 feet of a railroad track easement.84 As
            such, no impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

m.          Potentially Significant Impact. The project is adjacent to Balboa Boulevard, a major arterial
            roadway.85 Since the site plan has not yet been finalized with respect to proposed access points
            and parking location, impacts associated with roadway hazards cannot be fully evaluated at this
            time. However, a traffic study and pedestrian safety study will be completed as part of the EIR.
            Impacts could potentially be significant, and further analysis of this issue will be included in the
            EIR.

n.          Less Than Significant Impact. A 36-inch water transmission line operated by the Los Angeles
            Department of Water and Power passes beneath the southern edge of the project site.86 This
            water line would not pose a significant risk to the project. As such, impacts would be less than
            significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

o.          Less Than Significant Impact. A high-pressure natural gas main is located 600 feet west of the
            project site.87 Based on a hazards assessment of pipeline accident scenarios and the calculated
            risk of fatality at the project resulting from an accident, the risk associated with the pipeline
            would be less than significant.88 No further study of this issue is required.

p.          No Impact. The project site is not located on a site that contains or is near a propane tank that
            could pose a safety risk.89 No impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is
            required.

q.          No Impact. The project site is approximately 630 feet from north to south, as measured along the
            site's frontage on Balboa Boulevard, and 580 feet from east to west, as measured along the site's
            frontage on San Jose Street.90 This is a length to width ratio of less than 1.1. As such, no impact
            would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

r.          No Impact. The project site is zoned C2, Commercial,91 within which schools are a permitted
            use.92 Surrounding properties are zoned C2 (Commercial), A2 (Agricultural) and RS (Suburban
            Residential).93 Therefore, the existing zoning of the site and the surrounding properties are not
            incompatible with schools. As such, no impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is
            required.


83    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, Table 2.
84    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, Table 2.
85    Ibid., Table 2.
86    Ibid., Table 2.
87    Ibid., Table 2.
88    Meredith & Associates, Pipeline Safety Hazard Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, December 5,
      2003.
89    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, page 21.
90    City of Los Angeles Zone Information and Map Access System, http://zimas.lacity.org/.
91    Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
92    City of Los Angeles, Planning and Zoning Code. Section 12.14-A.33.
93    City of Los Angeles Zone Information and Map Access System, http://zimas.lacity.org/.


LAUSD                                                    23                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
s.          Potentially Significant Impact. Since the site plan has not yet been finalized with respect to
            proposed access points and circulation patterns, impacts associated with bus traffic patterns
            cannot be fully evaluated at this time. Impacts could potentially be significant, and further
            analysis of this issue will be included in the EIR. A traffic study and pedestrian safety study will
            be completed as part of the EIR.

t.          No Impact. The project site is not located within 2,000 feet of a significant disposal of hazardous
            waste.94 No impacts would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: Further study is required regarding bus traffic patterns and roadway hazards in the EIR.
No further study is required regarding the other hazards and hazardous material issues.




94    Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
      22, 2004, Table 2.


LAUSD                                                   24                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                         November 2004
8.    HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY. Would                                           Less Than
                                                                  Potentially                    Less Than
      the project:                                                              Significant with               No
                                                                  Significant                    Significant
                                                                                   Mitigation                Impact
                                                                    Impact                         Impact
                                                                                 Incorporation
      a.    Violate any water quality standards or waste
            discharge requirements?

      b.    Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or
            interfere with groundwater recharge such that
            there would be a net deficit in aquifer volume
            or a lowering of the local groundwater table
            level (e.g., the production rate of pre-existing
            nearby wells would drop to a level which
            would not support existing land uses or
            planned uses for which permits have been
            granted)?

      c.    Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern
            of the site or area, including through the
            alteration of the course of a stream or river, in a
            manner which would result in substantial
            erosion or siltation on-or off-site?

      d. Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern
         of the site or area, including through the
         alteration of the course of a stream or river, or
         substantially increase the rate or amount of
         surface runoff in a manner that would result in
         flooding on-or off-site?

      e.    Create or contribute runoff water which would
            exceed the capacity of existing or planned
            stormwater drainage systems or provide
            substantial additional sources of polluted
            runoff?

      f.    Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?

      g.    Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard
            area as mapped on a federal Flood Hazard
            Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate Map or
            other flood hazard delineation map?

      h. Place within a 100-year flood hazard area
         structures that would impede or redirect flood
         flows?

      i.    Expose people or structures to a significant risk
            of loss, injury or death involving flooding,
            including flooding as a result of the failure of a
            levee or dam?

      j.    Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?




LAUSD                                                     25                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                             November 2004
Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. New schools built under the LAUSD New School Construction
            Program may create additional sources of non-point source or "storm water" pollution from
            vehicular related contaminants washing into the drainage system during wet weather.95 The
            proposed school would be constructed in an area that is already developed and already
            producing non-point-source pollutants.96 In addition, new school construction includes grading
            and other construction activities that could cause deterioration of water quality. LAUSD
            incorporates construction BMPs into the New School Construction Program requirements for all
            new construction projects.97 These include prior to and during construction of the proposed
            project, LAUSD would:

            ·      Prepare and implement a sediment and erosion control plan that follows the BMPs outlined
                   by the State Water Resources Control Board to comply with the Stormwater Construction
                   Activities General Permit;
            ·      Develop and implement a SWPPP, with BMPs for new construction, as required by RWQCB
                   NPDES regulations;
            ·      Discharge water accumulated within the construction excavation pits in accordance with
                   BMPs and a dewatering plan that must be developed and approved prior to construction as
                   part of the NPDES General Construction Stormwater Permit; and
            ·      Prevent construction-related sediment flows from entering storm drainage systems by
                   constructing temporary filter inlets around existing storm drain inlets prior to the
                   stabilization of construction site areas.98

            Implementation of these BMPs would ensure that impacts related to water quality standards are
            less than significant. No further study of this issue is required.

b.          No Impact. The project site is currently paved and developed with buildings, parking lots, and
            other impervious surfaces.99 The proposed project would result in a site with pavement,
            building structures, and parking lots that would continue the existence of impermeable surfaces.
            The proposed project may include playing fields, which could provide for the percolation of
            rainwater to groundwater. Therefore, the project would not deplete groundwater levels or
            interfere with groundwater recharge. No impacts to groundwater would occur, and no further
            study of this issue is required.

c.          Less Than Significant Impact. Drainage patterns within the New School Construction Program
            area are well established resulting in low potential for drainage alteration in most areas.100
            LAUSD would comply with city and county ordinances regulating drainage improvements and
            grading plans as they relate to construction of on-site improvements that affect drainage.101 In
            addition LAUSD would be required to incorporate the following standards developed by the
            "Collaborative for High Performance Schools" (CHPS) to the extent feasible:102

            ·      Managing stormwater with systems to absorb and capture as much runoff as possible;
            ·      Minimizing impervious surface area to reduce stormwater runoff;



95    Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.9-9.
96    Ibid., page 3.9-10.
97    Ibid., page 3.9-10.
98    Ibid., page 3.9-9.
99    Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
100   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.9-10.
101   California Government Code, Section 53097.
102   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 2-25, 3.9-11 through 3.9-12.


LAUSD                                                    26                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
            ·      Distributing runoff from impervious surfaces over large vegetated areas prior to reaching a
                   stormwater conveyance system.

            While these standards are not mandatory for every school, the CHPS criteria are intended to
            avoid increasing water quantity and velocity where possible. Implementation of the CHPS
            criteria where feasible and all applicable regulations, plans, and standards regarding drainage103
            would reduce impacts regarding the alteration of existing drainage patterns that could result in
            siltation or erosion to a less than significant level. No further study of this issue is required.

d.          Less Than Significant. Drainage patterns within the New School Construction Program area are
            well established resulting in low potential for drainage alteration in most areas.104 LAUSD
            would comply with city and county ordinances regulating drainage improvements and grading
            plans as they relate to construction of on-site improvements that affect drainage.105 Compliance
            with the preceding ordinances will ensure that that the proposed project would not adversely
            affect the local drainage system in a manner that would result in substantial flooding on or off
            site. In addition, LAUSD would incorporate CHPS standards as stated above, to the extent
            feasible.106 Therefore, impacts would be less than significant. No further study of this issue is
            required.

e.          Less Than Significant Impact. Impervious surfaces such as buildings and parking lots can
            increase runoff rates through impeding infiltration of rainfall and increasing overland flow
            velocities.107 The site is currently developed with structures and paved impervious surfaces.
            The proposed project would also be paved and include impervious structures. The project may
            include playing fields that would provide for percolation of rainwater to groundwater. As a
            result, the proposed project would have a runoff volume similar to, if not less than, the site's
            current runoff volume. In addition, LAUSD would incorporate CHPS standards as stated above,
            to the extent feasible.108 Therefore, impacts of the project on runoff volume would be less than
            significant. No further study of this issue is required.

f.          Less Than Significant Impact. New schools built under the New School Construction Program
            may create additional sources of non-point source or "storm water" pollution from vehicular
            related contaminants washing into the drainage system during wet weather.109 The proposed
            school would be constructed in an area that is already developed and already producing non-
            point-source pollutants. In addition, new school construction includes grading and other
            construction activities that could cause deterioration of water quality. LAUSD would comply
            with NPDES regulations, and since the project is larger than 1 acre, LAUSD would be required to
            prepare a SWPPP.110 LAUSD also incorporates construction BMPs into all new construction
            projects.111 Implementation of these regulations and standards would ensure that impacts
            related to water quality are less than significant. No further study of this issue is required.

g.          No Impact. Housing is not a component of the proposed project. In addition, the site is not in a
            flood zone.112 Therefore, no impact with regard to housing within a 100-year flood hazard area
            would result. No further study of this issue is required.

103   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 3.9-6 through 3.9-8.
104   Ibid., page 3.9-10.
105   California Government Code, Section 53097.
106   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 2-25, 3.9-11 through 3.9-12.
107   Ibid., page 3.9-11.
108   Ibid., pages 2-25, 3.9-11 through 3.9-12.
109   Ibid., page 3.9-9.
110   Ibid., page 3.9-9.
111   Ibid., pages 3.9-5 through 3.9-10.
112   Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.


LAUSD                                                    27                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
h.          No Impact. The site is not in a 100-year flood zone.113 As a result, no impact with regard to
            structures within a 100-year flood hazard area would result. No further study of this issue is
            required.

i.          No Impact. The project site is not in an area of potential flooding and is not in a coastal area.114
            The nearest dam is located approximately 2.25 miles northeast from the project site.115 However,
            the site is not located downslope of any large bodies of water that could adversely affect the site
            in the event of an earthquake induced dam or levee failure.116 Therefore, no impact associated
            with flooding would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

j.          No Impact. The project site is not in a coastal area; therefore, tsunamis (seismic sea waves) are
            not a significant hazard to the site.117 Additionally, the site is not located close to any large
            bodies of water that could adversely affect the site in the event of a seiche (seismic wave
            oscillations in an enclosed or semi-enclosed body of water).118 The topography of the project site
            is relatively flat lying and is located in an urban area far from mountain slopes and canyons.119
            Moreover, the site is not within an area identified as having a potential for slope instability.120
            Therefore, mudflows are not considered a significant hazard to the site. Based on the above, no
            impact associated with inundation by seiche, tsunamis, or mudflow would occur, and no further
            study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential hydrology and water quality impacts,
including impacts associated with water quality standards or waste discharge requirements;
groundwater supplies or with groundwater recharge; the alteration of existing drainage patterns which
would result in substantial erosion or siltation on or off site; the alteration of existing drainage patterns
which would result in flooding on or off site; runoff water; water quality; housing within a 100-year flood
hazard; structures within a 100-year flood hazard; flooding, including flooding as a result of the failure of
a levee or dam; or inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow.




113 Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
114 Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, pages 13 through 14.
115 The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, pages 481, 501.
116 City of Los Angeles General Plan Safety Element, 1996.
117 Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, pages 13 through 14.
118 City of Los Angeles General Plan Safety Element, 1996.
119 Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, page 12; Program EIR, LAUSD
    New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.9-13.
120 Mactec, Report of Geological-Seismic Hazards Evaluation, September 15, 2004, page 12.


LAUSD                                                   28                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                         November 2004
9.    LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the project:                                Less Than
                                                                Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                                                           No
                                                                Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                         Impact
                                                                  Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Physically divide an established community?

      b.    Conflict with any applicable land use plan,
            policy, or regulation of an agency with
            jurisdiction over the project (including, but not
            limited to the general plan, specific plan, local
            coastal program, or zoning ordinance) adopted
            for the purpose of avoiding or mitigating an
            environmental effect?

      c . Conflict with any applicable habitat
          conservation plan or natural community
          conservation plan?


Explanation:

a.          No Impact. The purpose of the proposed project is to develop a neighborhood school that would
            allow students in neighboring residential areas to attend schools near their home.121
            Neighborhood schools are generally essential parts of the surrounding communities and,
            therefore, do not create physical diversions. The project site is located within the Granada Hills-
            Knollwood community.122 This project would replace a hospital that separates an established
            residential community from commercial uses along Balboa Boulevard.123 Therefore, the project
            would not divide an established community, and no further study of this issue is required.

b.          No Impact. The project site is zoned C2, Commercial Zone, by the City of Los Angeles.124
            Schools are a permitted use in the C2 zone.125 In addition, the proposed project does not conflict
            with the land use designations of the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan or the Granada
            Hills Specific Plan.126 The proposed project would comply with all other applicable regulations,
            plans, and standards set forth in the Program EIR.127 As a result, there would be no impacts
            associated with applicable land use plan, policy, and regulations. No further study of this issue
            is required.

c.          No Impact. The project site is not within a natural conservation community or a habitat
            conservation area.128 Thus, the proposed project would not conflict with any applicable
            conservation elements or natural community conservation plan. No impact would occur as a
            result of the project, and no further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential land use and planning impacts
including impacts associated with the division of an established community or with conflicts with
applicable land use plan, policy, or regulation of any agency with jurisdiction over the project or any
applicable habitat conservation plan or natural community conservation plan.

121 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.10-15.
122 Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, July 7, 1996.
123 Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.
124 Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
125 The City of Los Angeles, Planning and Zoning Code, Section 12.14.A.33.
126 Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, July 10, 1996, pages III 5-6, Generalized Land Use Map; Granada
    Hills Specific Plan, January 21, 1992, pages 6 through 7.
127 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 3.10-6 through 3.10-10.
128 Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.


LAUSD                                                   29                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
10. MINERAL RESOURCES. Would the project:                                    Less Than
                                                              Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                                                         No
                                                              Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                       Impact
                                                                Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Result in the loss of availability of a known
            mineral resource that would be of value to the
            region and the residents of the state?

      b.    Result in the loss of availability of a locally
            important mineral resource recovery site
            delineated on a local general plan, specific
            plan or other land use plan?


Explanation:

a.          No Impact. Mineral and energy resources are generally located on industrial lands that are not
            suitable for school facilities and that would be eliminated from consideration during the initial
            site screening process.129 The project site is also located in an area where urban development has
            already occurred. No active, inactive, or abandoned wells exist within close proximity to the
            site.130 Therefore, no impact associated with known mineral resources would occur. No further
            study of this issue is required.

b.          No Impact. The proposed project would not impact a locally important mineral resource because
            mineral and energy resources are generally located on industrial lands that are not suitable for
            school facilities and that would be eliminated from consideration during the initial site screening
            process.131 The project site is also located in an area where urban development has already
            occurred. Neither the Granada Hills Specific Plan nor the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community
            Plan indicates an important mineral resource on or near the site.132 No active, inactive, or
            abandoned wells exist within close proximity to the site.133 Therefore, no impact associated with
            a locally important mineral resource would occur. No further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential mineral resource impacts including
impacts associated with the loss of availability of a known mineral resource; or the loss of availability of a
locally important mineral resource recovery site.




129 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.7-2.
130 Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
    22, 2004, page 9.
131 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.7-2.
132 Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan, July 10, 1996; Granada Hills Specific Plan, March 3, 1992.
133 Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4, October
    22, 2004, page 9.


LAUSD                                                   30                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
11. NOISE. Would the project result in:                                          Less Than
                                                                Potentially   Significant with Less Than     No
                                                                Significant      Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                           Impact
                                                                  Impact       Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Exposure of persons to or generation of noise
            levels in excess of standards established in the
            local general plan or noise ordinance, or
            applicable standards of other agencies?

      b.    Exposure of persons to or generation of
            excessive groundborne vibration or
            groundborne noise levels?

      c.    A substantial permanent increase in ambient
            noise levels in the project vicinity above levels
            existing without the project?

      d. A substantial temporary or periodic increase
         in ambient noise levels in the project vicinity
         above levels existing without the project?

      e.    For a project located within an airport land
            use plan or, where such a plan has not been
            adopted, within two miles of a public airport
            or public use airport, would the project
            expose people residing or working in the
            project area to excessive noise levels?

      f.    For a project within the vicinity of a private
            airstrip, would the project expose people
            residing or working in the project area to
            excessive noise levels?


Explanation:

a.          Potentially Significant Impact. Noise generated during construction of the project could expose
            the surrounding community to noise levels in excess of standards adopted in local ordinances.
            Chapter IX, Article 2, Section 112.05 of Los Angeles Municipal Code specifies the maximum noise
            level of powered equipment or powered hand tools.134 Any powered equipment or powered
            hand tool that produces a maximum noise level exceeding 75 dB(A) at a distance of 50 feet is
            prohibited.135 However, this noise limitation does not apply where compliance is technically
            infeasible. "Technically infeasible" means that the noise standard cannot be met despite the use
            of mufflers, shields, sound barriers, and/or other noise reduction device or techniques during the
            operation of equipment.136 In order to reduce temporary construction noise impacts to off-site
            receptors, LAUSD will implement construction BMPs as follows: provide advance notification of
            construction to surrounding land uses; ensure that equipment is properly muffled; place noise
            sources away from residences; implement noise attenuation measures, where needed; and
            generally conduct construction in compliance with local noise ordinances.137 As the site plan is
            not fully developed, site-specific analysis of construction noise cannot be evaluated at this stage.



134   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.3-6.
135   Ibid., page 3.3-7.
136   Ibid., page 3.3-7.
137   Ibid., page 2.0-30.


LAUSD                                                    31                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                           November 2004
            Therefore, construction noise impacts may be potentially significant and will be studied further
            in the EIR.

            The project would be exposed to traffic noise from Balboa Boulevard. LAUSD's BMPs require an
            acoustical engineer to measure noise levels near the proposed school sites, and the acoustical
            engineer shall assist in the design process to ensure that LAUSD noise standards are not
            exceeded.138 Until the site plan is fully developed and the traffic analysis is completed, noise
            impacts from traffic along Balboa Boulevard cannot be determined. Therefore, impacts are
            potentially significant and shall be studied further in the EIR.

b.          Potentially Significant Impact. Groundborne noise could be generated during construction.
            Feasibility analysis is ongoing to determine whether all existing structures would be demolished.
            As the site plan is not fully developed, site-specific analysis of construction noise cannot be
            evaluated at this stage. Therefore, construction noise impacts may be potentially significant and
            will be studied further in the EIR.

c.          Potentially Significant Impact. The project would generate permanent increases in ambient
            noise levels as a result of school-related traffic and outdoor school activities. As the site plan is
            not fully developed, site-specific analysis of operational noise cannot be evaluated at this stage.
            Therefore, operational noise impacts may be potentially significant and will be studied further in
            the EIR.

d.          Potentially Significant Impact. Noise generated during construction of the project could create
            temporary or periodic increases in ambient noise levels. To reduce temporary construction noise
            impacts, LAUSD will implement construction BMPs as follows: provide advance notification of
            construction to surrounding land uses; ensure that equipment is properly muffled; place noise
            sources away from residences; implement noise attenuation measures, where needed; and
            generally conduct construction in compliance with local noise ordinances.139 As the site plan is
            not fully developed, site-specific analysis of construction noise cannot be evaluated at this stage.
            Therefore, construction noise impacts may be potentially significant and will be studied further
            in the EIR.

e.          No Impact. Since the proposed project site is not within two miles of an airport,140 no impact
            associated with airport noise would occur. No further study of this issue is required.

f.          No Impact. Since the proposed project site is not in the vicinity of a private airstrip,141 no impact
            associated with airport noise would occur. No further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: Noise associated with construction and operation of the project shall be studied in the
EIR. Additionally, potential impacts to the project associated with traffic noise along Balboa Boulevard
shall be studied in the EIR. No further study is required with respect to other noise impacts.




138 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 2.0-30.
139 Ibid., page 2.0-30.
140 The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, pages 500 through 502,
    531.
141 Ibid., pages 500 through 502, 531.


LAUSD                                                    32                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
12. POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the                                              Less Than
                                                                  Potentially   Significant with Less Than
    project:                                                                                                   No
                                                                  Significant      Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                             Impact
                                                                    Impact       Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Induce substantial population growth in an
            area, either directly (for example, by proposing
            new homes and businesses) or indirectly (for
            example, through extension of roads or other
            infrastructure)?

      b.    Displace substantial numbers of existing
            housing, necessitating the construction of
            replacement housing elsewhere?

      c . Displace substantial numbers of people,
          necessitating the construction of replacement
          housing elsewhere?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. LAUSD has identified a long-term need for 200,000 classroom
            seats to meet demographic projections through the year 2020.142 For Phase II of the New School
            Construction Program, LAUSD estimated that Local District A (which has since been renamed
            District 1), within which the project site is located, would need 2,420 new seats.143 The project is
            intended to accommodate projected population growth in the local community. As such, the
            project would not stimulate population growth beyond that already projected to occur.
            Therefore, impacts on population growth are less than significant, and no further study of this
            issue is required.

b.          No Impact. The project site was formerly used as a hospital, which has been closed since August
            2003.144 The site is zoned C2-Commercial.145 No housing exists on the site.146 Thus, the
            development of the proposed project would not result in the displacement of existing housing.
            No impact would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

c.          No Impact. As stated above, the project site contains a closed hospital and does not contain any
            housing. Therefore, development of the proposed project would not result in the displacement of
            any people. No impact would occur, and no further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential population and housing impacts
including impacts associated with population growth; displacement of housing; or displacement of
people.




142 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.14-5.
143 Ibid., page 2-6. Note that LAUSD has since restructured its local districts and the project site is now within Local
    District 1.
144 Meredith & Associates, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, LAUSD Valley Region High School #4,
    September 13, 2004, page 3.
145 Parcel Profile Report, City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning, August 17, 2004.
146 Site visit, conducted by Ned Baldwin, October 6, 2004.


LAUSD                                                     33                                Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                              November 2004
13. PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the project result in
    substantial adverse physical impacts associated
    with the provision of new or physically altered
    governmental facilities, need for new or physically                      Less Than
    altered governmental facilities, the construction of      Potentially Significant with Less Than
                                                                                                         No
    which could cause significant environmental               Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                       Impact
                                                                Impact     Incorporation     Impact
    impacts, in order to maintain acceptable service
    ratios, response times or other performance
    objectives for any of the public services:

      a.    Fire protection?

      b.    Police protection?

      c.    Schools?

      d. Parks?

      e.    Other public facilities?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. Fire protection services would be provided to the site by the City
            of Los Angeles Fire Department. Fire Station 87, located at 10241 Balboa Boulevard,
            approximately 0.27 mile from the project site, would be the primary responder.147 Fire
            protection service needs are generally related to the size of the population and geographic area
            served, the number and types of calls for service, and other community and physical
            characteristics.148 The proposed project would provide relief to existing overcrowded schools,
            specifically Monroe High School, by creating 1,215 additional seats. The project would not be
            growth inducing and would redevelop a previously developed site. Fire Station 87 has served
            the site in its previous use as a hospital. Response times would not be affected by the project. As
            such, the proposed project would not generate a need for a new fire station. Impacts would be
            less than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. LAUSD maintains its own police department to provide security
            for the schools and centers within its jurisdiction.149 The Los Angeles School Police Department
            (LASPD) would provide the primary law enforcement for the project. An LASPD officer may
            provide on-campus security and officers would be made available to serve the proposed school
            as necessary. General campus activities would be under the supervision of the principal, vice-
            principal, teachers, and other campus employees. The Program EIR includes both design
            features and provisions for the LASPD police officers in order to ensure a high level of safety and
            security at the proposed school project and in the immediate surrounding area.150

            The City of Los Angeles Police Department, Devonshire Community Police Station, would be the
            secondary providers of police protection services within the project area and would supplement
            LASPD. The Devonshire Community Police Station is located at 10250 Etiwanda Avenue, which
            is less than two miles from the project site.151 The redevelopment of the site at an intensity less

147 http://www.lafd.org/fsloc.htm; The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps,
    2003 Edition, page 501.
148 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.15-16.
149 Ibid., page 3.15-10.
150 Ibid., pages 3.15-16 through 3.15-17.
151 www.lapd.org.


LAUSD                                                   34                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
            than or equal to the previous use would not create substantial new demands on police services
            such that significant impacts to service ratios, response times and other performance objectives
            would occur. Impacts associated with police service would be less than significant, and no
            further study of this issue is required.

c.          Potentially Significant Impact. Considering that the project is a part of the LAUSD New School
            Construction Program, the project would not create a need for new or expanded public school
            facilities; rather it would provide a new public school facility. As a result, the project would have
            no adverse impact on schools. In fact, the proposed project would have a beneficial impact on
            school services. The primary objectives of the LAUSD New School Construction Program, of
            which the project is a part, are as follows:152

            ·      Provide a neighborhood school to all students as soon as possible;
            ·      Eliminate involuntary bussing of capped students as soon as possible;
            ·      Relieve classroom overcrowding by restoring pre-1991 classroom size norms as soon as
                   possible;
            ·      Expand and increase early childhood education capacity;
            ·      Create schools that are centers of community engagement both during and outside of normal
                   operating hours; and
            ·      Build and maintain schools that reflect the wise and efficient use of limited land and public
                   resources.

            By relieving overcrowding at existing schools, the proposed project would dramatically improve
            the quality and experience of education for LAUSD students. The proposed project is part of
            Phase II of the LAUSD New School Construction Program, which is estimated to provide a total
            of 1,308 classrooms and approximately 35,310 new seats.153 The proposed project itself would
            provide 45 new classrooms and 1,215 seats.

            However, the proposed school may share athletic facilities with other surrounding schools. The
            resulting potential increase in use of other athletic facilities may accelerate the deterioration of
            those facilities. Therefore, potentially significant impact on other school facilities could occur.
            Further study of this issue is required in the EIR.

d.          Less Than Significant Impact. Since the proposed school is a growth-accommodating project to
            meet the projected enrollment demands, the project would not induce population growth or
            otherwise increase demand for parks. The project would include recreational facilities (e.g., play
            areas) for students and may provide after-hours recreation opportunities for local residents, as
            many LAUSD recreation facilities are available for community use outside school hours.154 This
            use of school facilities increases a community's available recreational resources. Given the above,
            the impacts related to recreational areas would be less than significant, and no further study of
            this issue is required.

e.          Potentially Significant Impact. The New School Construction Program, of which the project is a
            part, is intended to meet LAUSD's existing capacity shortages and the projected 200,000
            classroom seats needed through the year 2020.155 The project is growth accommodating rather
            than growth inducing. As such, the project would not contribute to increased demand for public
            services.

            Construction of the proposed project would require the demolition of the former Granada Hills
            Community Hospital. This would result in the demolition of structures and occupancy of a site


152   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 2-2.
153   Ibid., pages 2-5 through 2-6.
154   Ibid., page 3.11-3.
155   Ibid., pages 2-4 through 2-7.


LAUSD                                                     35                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
            that could potentially be used for a future hospital. The former capacity provided by the
            Granada Hills Community Hospital has been shifted to other hospital facilities in the community.
            Potential impacts could occur if the other facilities lack the number of beds, personnel, doctors,
            equipment, and funding to accommodate the medical services previously offered at the site. This
            may result in a potentially significant impact and will be studied further in the EIR.

Further Study: Further study of hospital facilities in the project area, and athletic facilities of other
schools is required in the EIR. No further study is required regarding potential impacts associated with
other public facilities including fire protection, police protection, schools, parks, and other public facilities
except hospital facilities and athletic facilities of other schools.




LAUSD                                                  36                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                         November 2004
14. RECREATION. Would the project:                                                 Less Than
                                                                  Potentially   Significant with Less Than
                                                                  Significant      Mitigation    Significant No Impact
                                                                    Impact       Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Increase the use of existing neighborhood
            and regional parks or other recreational
            facilities such that substantial physical
            deterioration of the facility would occur or
            be accelerated?

      b.    Include recreational facilities or require the
            construction or expansion of recreational
            facilities that might have an adverse
            physical effect on the environment?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. Physical impacts to recreation facilities are usually associated
            with population in-migration and growth, which increase the demand for recreation. The
            proposed school is intended to meet the projected enrollment demands of the community;
            therefore, the project would not generate population growth that would increase the use of
            recreational facilities.156

b.          Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would include recreational facilities for
            students.157 The potential adverse physical effects identified in this Initial Study relating to
            aesthetics, noise, air quality, and traffic are not the result of the construction of recreational
            facilities as part of the project. Though the proposed project may share the athletic facilities at
            other schools, no expansion of those recreational facilities would occur. Impacts associated with
            the construction or expansion of recreational facilities would be less than significant, and no
            further study of this issue is required.

Further Study: Further study regarding the use of athletic facilities at other schools is required in the
EIR. Further study is not required with respect to other recreational facilities.




156 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.14-5.
157 Ibid., page 3.11-3.


LAUSD                                                        37                               Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                                November 2004
15. TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC. Would the                                          Less Than
                                                                Potentially Significant with Less Than
    project:                                                                                               No
                                                                Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                         Impact
                                                                  Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Cause an increase in traffic that is substantial
            in relation to the existing traffic load and
            capacity of the street system (i.e., result in a
            substantial increase in either the number of
            vehicle trips, the volume to capacity ratio on
            roads, or congestion at intersections)?

      b.    Exceed, either individually or cumulatively, a
            level of service standard established by the
            county congestion management agency for
            designated roads or highways?

      c . Result in a change in air traffic patterns,
          including either an increase in traffic levels or
          a change in location that results in substantial
          safety risks?

      d. Substantially increase hazards due to a design
         feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous
         intersections) or incompatible uses?

      e.    Result in inadequate emergency access?

      f.    Result in inadequate parking capacity?

      g.    Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or
            programs      supporting      alternative
            transportation (e.g., bus turnouts, bicycle
            racks)?


Explanation:

a.          Potentially Significant Impact. As one of the primary objectives of the New School Construction
            Program, the proposed project would allow students within LAUSD to attend neighborhood
            schools.158 The proposed project would result in students commuting shorter distances to and
            from school.159 The Program EIR determined that the regional effects of the New School
            Construction Program would result in a daily and annual decrease in private automobile vehicle
            miles traveled (VMT).160 The proposed project could have site access on Balboa Boulevard and
            potentially Devonshire Street, both of which are major roadways with high traffic volumes. The
            project has the potential to increase traffic to Balboa Boulevard and Devonshire Street due to the
            project's contribution of trips to these roadways. In addition, the transportation of students from
            the proposed school to other schools, for the use of athletic facilities could increase the number of
            trips between the schools. The trips associated with the project could increase the volume to
            capacity ratio on these roadways or increase congestion at intersections. Therefore, impacts with
            regard to traffic could be potentially significant and this issue shall be studied further in the EIR.




158 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 2-2.
159 Ibid., page 3.1-12.
160 Ibid., pages 3.1-12 through 3.1-13.


LAUSD                                                    38                              Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                           November 2004
b.          Less Than Significant Impact. The nearest roads designated in the County's Congestion
            Management Program are State Route 118, located approximately one mile north of the site, and
            Interstate 405 Freeway, located approximately one and a half miles east of the site.161 As the
            project is intended to serve the surrounding community, it would not generate substantial trips
            on the designated highways. As such, the project would have a less than significant effect on the
            level of service standard established in the county's Congestion Management Program. No
            further study of this issue is required in the EIR.

c.          No Impact. The proposed school would have no impact on air traffic patterns due to the fact that
            the site is located more than two miles from the nearest airport162 and the proposed uses are not
            connected with air travel. No further study of this issue is required.

d.          Potentially Significant Impact. Construction and operation of the project would result in new
            vehicle and pedestrian circulation patterns on and adjacent to the site. Construction activity
            including, hauling of oversized loads, may potentially require roadway or sidewalk closures and
            traffic detours. The proposed school would have ingress and egress for buses and vehicles of
            parents and staff. The project would also increase pedestrian traffic along Balboa Boulevard and
            Devonshire Street including an increase in pedestrian crossings of both roadways. Since the site
            plan has not yet been finalized with respect to proposed access points and parking location,
            impacts associated with roadway hazards cannot be fully evaluated at this time. However, a
            traffic study and pedestrian safety study will be completed as part of the EIR. Impacts could
            potentially be significant, and further analysis of this issue will be included in the EIR.

e.          Less Than Significant Impact. The project would comply with applicable Fire Department,
            Department of Building and Safety regulations, and UBC standard design requirements.163
            LAUSD would also provide the fire department with a full site plan for review, including all
            buildings, fences, drive gates, retaining wall or other features that might affect Fire Department
            access, with unobstructed fire lanes for access identified.164 This review process, along with
            LAUSD's compliance with the applicable regulations and standards stated above, would ensure
            that adequate emergency access would be provided. As a result, impacts with regard to
            emergency access would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

f.          Potentially Significant Impact. The proposed project could create potentially significant parking
            impacts if the parking demand generated by the project exceeds the parking supply provided.
            LAUSD parking standard for high schools is 2.5 parking spaces per classroom. The proposed
            project would include 45 classrooms and thereby would require a total of 113 parking spaces. It
            has not yet been determined whether the existing parking structure would be retained or if new
            parking would be constructed. The evaluation of parking impacts is dependent on the
            finalization of the project site plan. In addition, the use of other schools' athletic facilities could
            increase the demand for parking at those schools. As such, impacts associated with parking at
            the proposed project and at other schools are potentially significant. Further study of this issue
            will be included in the EIR.

g.          Less Than Significant Impact. LAUSD schools are supportive of students walking, bicycling,
            and using public transportation.165 The proposed project would support alternative
            transportation for students, such as bicycling or walking, as a result of the close proximity of the



161 2004 Congestion Management Plan for Los Angeles County, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
    Authority, Jul 24, 2004, page 16; The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003
    Edition, page 501.
162 The Thomas Guide, Los Angeles and Ventura Counties, Thomas Bros. Maps, 2003 Edition, pages 500 through 502,
    531.
163 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.15-16.
164 Ibid., page 3.15-16.
165 Ibid., page 2-32.


LAUSD                                                     39                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                           November 2004
            school to the community it is intended to serve.166 The project would accommodate school bus
            circulation and would provide bicycle parking. LAUSD also has a policy to encourage ride
            sharing.167 An MTA bus stop is located near the corner of Balboa Boulevard and Devonshire
            Street near the proposed project.168 The proposed project would not interfere with the operation
            of this bus stop. As such, the project would not conflict with policies, plans, or programs
            supporting alternative transportation. Impacts would be less than significant, and no further
            study of this issue is recommended.

Further Study: Further Study in the EIR is required for the impact of vehicle trips generated by the
project on the street system, impacts associated with pedestrian safety and vehicle circulation, and
impacts associated with project related parking and parking at other schools. Further study is not
required with respect to roadways designated in the County's Congestion Management Program, air
traffic patterns, emergency access, alternative transportation, or other transportation and traffic issues.




166 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.1-12.
167 Ibid., page 2-24.
168 http://mta.net/riding_metro/default.htm, accessed October 22, 2004.


LAUSD                                                 40                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                      November 2004
16. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would the                                 Less Than
                                                              Potentially Significant with Less Than
    project:                                                                                             No
                                                              Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                       Impact
                                                                Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of
            the applicable Regional Water Quality Control
            Board?

      b.    Require or result in the construction of new
            water or wastewater treatment facilities or
            expansion of existing facilities, the
            construction of which could cause significant
            environmental effects?

      c.    Require or result in the construction of new
            storm water drainage facilities or expansion of
            existing facilities, the construction of which
            could cause significant environmental effects?

      d . Have sufficient water supplies available to
          serve the project from existing entitlements
          and resources, or are new or expanded
          entitlements needed?

      e.    Result in a determination by the wastewater
            treatment provider which serves or may serve
            the project that it has adequate capacity to
            serve the project's projected demand in
            addition to the provider's existing
            commitments?

      f.    Be served by a landfill with sufficient
            permitted capacity to accommodate the
            project's solid waste disposal needs?

      g.    Comply with federal, state, and local statutes
            and regulations related to solid waste.


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. In carrying out construction of the proposed project, LAUSD
            would obtain a National Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit from the Regional
            Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) with requirements for wastewater discharge, BMPs, and
            a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (SWPPP).169 Within the NPDES permit the effluent
            quality criteria shall be specified in the permit, as determined by the Los Angeles RWQCB based
            on receiving water guidelines and waste load allocations.170 Compliance with requirements set
            forth by the RWQCB would reduce impacts to a less than significant level. No further study of
            this issue is required.

b.          Less Than Significant. The Program EIR evaluated the projected generation of wastewater as a
            result of the New School Construction Program.171 The expected increase in wastewater flow as


169 Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 2-28.
170 Ibid., page 2-29.
171 Ibid., pages 3.15-17 through 3.15-18.


LAUSD                                                   41                            Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
            result of the entire program was concluded to be less than significant, considering the combined
            capacity of treatment plants serving the project area through the year 2020 and the expectation
            that wastewater treatment facilities and regional systems for wastewater flows would continue to
            expand and be upgraded as a result of the expected regional population growth.172 The water
            demand for the entire New School Construction Program is expected to be 511,188 gallons of
            water per day.173 However, the expected expansions and upgrades of water facilities would not
            be caused by the New School Construction Program because the Program and proposed project
            are not growth-inducing factors that would necessitate new or expanded facilities.174 The
            increased student enrollment as a result of implementation of the New School Construction
            Program would result in a 5.8 percent increase in LAUSD-generated water demand from the
            2002/2003 conditions. This increase in water demand is considered minimal compared to the
            combined capacity of the water supply facilities serving the area.175 As such, the potential
            impacts of the project on wastewater treatment facilities would be less than significant. No
            further study of this issue is required.

c.          Less Than Significant Impact. Development of the project would comply with the NPDES
            regulations and would be subject to the City of Los Angeles drainage regulations.176 In carrying
            out construction of the proposed project, LAUSD would obtain a National Discharge Elimination
            Systems (NPDES) permit from the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) with
            requirements for wastewater discharge, BMPs, and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program
            (SWPPP).177As a part of project construction, new on-site drainage features would be installed.
            The project site has been previously served by the city storm water drainage facilities. As such,
            the project would not require the construction of new off-site storm drainage facilities. Impacts
            would be less than significant, and no further study is required.

d.          Less Than Significant Impact. The Program EIR evaluated the projected water demand as a
            result of the New School Construction Program. The estimates of the New School Construction
            Program included not only Phase II projects, but also Phase I.178 These estimates are considered
            conservative because Phase I projects have already approved and contribute to water demand as
            part of the baseline conditions. The expected increase in water demand as a result of the entire
            program was concluded to be minimal, compared to the combined capacity of the water supply
            facilities serving the project area.179 Furthermore, the proposed project would be located on a
            previously developed site that currently has water line connections that were previously served
            by the Metropolitan Water District. LAUSD would comply with local, regional, and State water
            conservation policies and would follow standard BMPs to reduce water consumption.180
            Therefore, impacts on water supply would be less than significant, and no further study of this
            issue is required.

e.          Less Than Significant Impact. The Program EIR evaluated the projected generation of
            wastewater as a result of the New School Construction Program. The estimates of the New
            School Construction Program included not only Phase II projects, but also Phase I.181 These
            estimates are considered conservative because Phase I projects have already approved and
            contribute to wastewater flow baseline conditions. The expected increase in wastewater flow as a


172   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.15­17.
173   Ibid., page 3.15-18.
174   Ibid., page 3.15-18.
175   Ibid., page 3.15-18.
176   Ibid., page 2-28.
177   Ibid., page 2-28.
178   Ibid., page 3.15-18.
179   Ibid., page 3.15­18.
180   Ibid., pages 2.0-26 and 3.15-18.
181   Ibid., page 3.15-17.


LAUSD                                                  42                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
            result of the entire program was concluded to be less than significant.182 Furthermore, the
            proposed project would be located on a previously developed site that currently has sewer line
            connections that were previously served by the Los Angeles Sanitation District. Additionally, if
            the project would require the relocation or extension of sewer lines, LAUSD would coordinate
            appropriately with the City of Los Angeles Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation,
            and Bureau of Engineering.183 Therefore, impacts on wastewater infrastructure would be less
            than significant, and no further study of this issue is required.

f.          Less Than Significant Impact. The Program EIR concluded that the increase in solid waste
            associated with LAUSD schools would not exceed the combined available capacities of landfills
            or result in the need for new or expanded landfill facilities.184 The LAUSD would implement
            BMPs such as source reduction, recycling and other diversion measures to reduce solid waste
            generation impacts to landfills.185 Furthermore, the proposed project would be located on a
            previously developed site that had previously contributed solid waste to regional landfills. As a
            result of the above, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study of this issue is
            required.

g.          Less Than Significant Impact. During construction and operation of the proposed project,
            LAUSD would comply with all city, county, and state solid waste diversion, reduction, and
            recycling mandates, including compliance with the City of Los Angeles Annual Report,
            Countywide Integrated Waste Management Plan (CIWMP), and the Los Angeles Municipal Code
            (if applicable).186 Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no further study is
            required.

Further Study: No further study is required regarding potential utilities and service systems impacts
including impacts associated with wastewater treatment requirements; the construction of new or
expanded water or wastewater facilities; the construction of new or expanded storm water drainage
facilities; water supply availability; the capacity of wastewater treatment facilities; landfill capacities; or
compliance with federal, state, and local statutes and regulations related to solid waste.




182   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, page 3.15­17.
183   Ibid., page 3.15­18.
184   Ibid., page 3.15­19.
185   Ibid., page 3.15-19.
186   Ibid., page 3.15-20.


LAUSD                                                  43                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                        November 2004
17. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE.                                       Less Than
                                                               Potentially Significant with Less Than
    Does the project:                                                                                     No
                                                               Significant    Mitigation    Significant
                                                                                                        Impact
                                                                 Impact     Incorporation     Impact
      a.    Have the potential to degrade the quality of the
            environment, substantially reduce the habitat
            of a fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or
            wildlife population to drop below self-
            sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a plant
            or animal community, reduce the number or
            restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant
            or animal or eliminate important examples of
            the major periods of California history or
            prehistory?

      b.    Have impacts that are individually limited, but
            cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively
            considerable" means that the incremental
            effects of a project are considerable when
            viewed in connection with the effects of past
            projects, the effects of other current projects,
            and the effects of probable future projects)?

      c . Have environmental effects that will cause
          substantial adverse effects on human beings,
          either directly or indirectly?


Explanation:

a.          Less Than Significant Impact. Because of the highly urbanized nature of the project area, the
            project would not have an impact on the habitat or population level of fish or wildlife species,
            threaten a plant or animal community; or impact the range of a rare or endangered plant or
            animal.187 The project would result in the removal of existing trees on the site and possibly the
            removal of some existing street trees.188 All applicable regulations, plans, and standards of
            LAUSD and the City of Los Angeles would be followed in the removal of any trees.189
            Furthermore, the project would not significantly impact examples of the major periods of
            California history or prehistory.190 Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no
            further study would be required.

b.          Potentially Significant Impact. Where the project would have no impacts--specifically with
            respect to agricultural resources, land use and planning, and mineral resources--it would not
            contribute to cumulative impacts. In addition, issues where the project would have less than
            significant impacts are specific to site conditions and the type of use proposed. As such, these
            impacts do not combine with impacts from other projects to cause a cumulative effect.
            Furthermore, the project is not growth inducing; thus, it would not contribute to the cumulative
            effects of population growth. The potentially significant impacts of the project that are associated
            with air, noise, public services, traffic and circulation could contribute to cumulative impacts.
            Therefore, further study of these issues is required in the EIR.


187   See Section 4, Biological Resources, above.
188   See Section 4, Biological Resources, above.
189   Program EIR, LAUSD New School Construction Program, March 2004, pages 3.4-6 through 3.4-8.
190   See Section 5, Cultural Resources, above.


LAUSD                                                   44                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                         November 2004
c.          Potentially Significant Impact. As discussed previously in this Initial Study, the project could
            potentially result in environmental effects that may cause adverse effects on human beings with
            regard to air quality, noise, public services, and traffic. As a result, impacts could be potentially
            significant and these issues shall be studied further in the EIR.

Further Study: No further study is required with respect to the project's impacts on the habitat of fish
and wildlife species, fish or wildlife populations, plant or animal communities, or California history or
prehistory. The Initial Study has also documented that no further study is required with respect to
impacts on agricultural resources; biological resources; cultural resources; geology and soils; hazards or
hazardous materials other than potential hazards associated with circulation; hydrology and water
quality; land use and planning; mineral resources; population and housing; police, fire and parks
services; and utility and service systems.

Further study in the EIR is required with respect to the potential cumulative effects of project impacts on
air quality; ambient noise; medical facilities; and traffic and circulation. In addition, further study is
required of the potential adverse effects on human beings resulting from the project impacts on air
quality, noise, public services, and traffic.




LAUSD                                                    45                             Initial Study - Valley High School #4
Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                                                          November 2004
                                        NOTICE OF PREPARATION
To: Agencies, Organizations, and Interested Parties

Subject: Notice of Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report (EIR) in compliance with Title 12, Section
15082(a) of the California Code of Regulations.

The Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) is the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA) for the proposed project identified below. LAUSD will prepare an Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
for the proposed project. The CEQA review process for this project is tiered off of the Program EIR prepared for
the LAUSD New School Construction Program.

Agencies: The LAUSD requests your agency's views on the scope and content of the environmental information
relevant to your agency's statutory responsibilities in connection with the proposed project, in accordance with
California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 15082(b). Your agency will need to use the EIR when considering
any permit or other approval your agency must issue for this project.

Organizations and Interested Parties: The LAUSD requests your comments and concerns regarding the
environmental issues associated with the construction and operation of the proposed project.

Project Name: Valley Region High School #4.

Project Location: The project would be located on the site of the former Granada Hills Community Hospital at
10445 Balboa Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles. The site is within the block bounded by North Balboa
Boulevard on the east, West Devonshire Street on the south, North Genesta Avenue on the west and West San Jose
Street on the north.

Project Description: LAUSD proposes to construct a high school campus intended to relieve overcrowding in
existing schools in the surrounding community. The proposed school would contain three small learning centers of
approximately 405 seats and 14 classrooms each, plus three separate joint use classrooms, for a campus total of
1,215 seats and 45 classrooms. The high school would also include facilities for performing arts/music, physical
education/athletics, library/media services, food services, career center, and space for accessory uses such as
administration areas, health offices, restrooms, and storerooms. It is possible that, in addition to the proposed high
school, a portion of the site would be used for LAUSD operational uses such as office space for the LAUSD police.
The project is scheduled for completion by the beginning of the fall 2010 school year.

Potential Environmental Effects: The Initial Study describes the potential environmental effects of the proposed
project. An EIR will be prepared to evaluate the project's potential impacts on the environment and analyze
alternatives. Potentially significant impacts have been identified with respect to: existing murals in the courtyard of
the hospital building and on the southern façade of the parking structure; pollutant emissions associated with project
construction and with vehicle trips on surrounding roadways; bus traffic patterns and roadway hazards; noise
associated with construction and operation of the project; hospital facilities in the project area; athletic facilities of
other schools; traffic including vehicle trips generated by the project on the street system, impacts associated with
pedestrian safety and vehicle circulation, and impacts associated with project related parking and parking at other
schools; the cumulative effects of project impacts on air quality, ambient noise, and traffic; and the potential adverse
effects on human resulting from the project impacts on air quality, noise, public services, recreational facilities, and
traffic.

Public Review Period: LAUSD has determined to make the Initial Study available for public review and comment
pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 15087. The comment period begins on November 23,
2004 and ends on December 23, 2004.
Responses and Comments: LAUSD will accept responses and comments for 30 days, from the date of this notice,
November 22, through and including December 22. Please indicate a contact person for your agency or organization
and send your responses and comments to:

                                           Jason Ricks, Project Manager/Consultant
                                             Los Angeles Unified School District
                                          Office of Environmental Health and Safety
                                                 355 S Grand Ave, 15th Floor
                                                Los Angeles, California 90071
                                             Fax: 213-633-7001
            E-mail: ceqa-comment@laschools.org - Please write "Valley High School No. 4" in subject line


Scoping Meeting: LAUSD will hold a public scoping meeting on December 2, 2004, from 6:30­8:30 PM at Patrick
Henry Middle School (Independence Hall) located at 17340 San Jose Street, Granada Hills. Agencies,
organizations, and interested parties are welcome to attend and present information that they believe should be
addressed in the EIR.

Document Availability: The Initial Study is available for review during regular business hours at the LAUSD
Office of Environmental Health and Safety address listed above and the following locations:

    ·    Granada Hills High School, 10535 Zelzah Avenue, Granada Hills
    ·    Patrick Henry Middle School, 17340 San Jose Street, Granada Hills
    ·    Mayall Elementary School, 16701 Mayall Street, North Hills
    ·    Granada Hill Branch Library, 10640 Petit Avenue, Granada Hills
    ·    LAUSD Office of Communications, 333 South Beaudry Avenue, Los Angeles

If you require additional information, please contact Jason Ricks at (213) 633-8423.
             APPENDIX B
Air Quality Modeling Data
                      APPENDIX C
Noise Monitoring and Modeling Data
Table N-1
ON-SITE NOISE LEVEL CONTOURS - Existing ADT Volumes


                                                                                Design                 Vehicle Mix                         Distance from Center of Roadway
ROADWAY NAME                                             Median      ADT        Speed      Alpha Medium Heavy                 Ldn at           DISTANCE TO CONTOUR
                                   Segment     Lanes     Width      Volume      (mph)     Factor(1) Trucks     Trucks       40 Feet(2)    75 Ldn    70 Ldn    67 Ldn    60 Ldn

Chatsworth St. west of Louise Ave.                4           0        21,580      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        68.7         18         56       111       544
Chatsworth St. west of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        21,550      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        68.7         18         56       111       544
Chatsworth St. east of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        15,750      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.4         13         41        82       399
Chatsworth St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            4           0        15,460      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.3         13         41        80       392
San Jose St. west of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         3,110      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        58.6          2          6        11        54
San Jose St. east of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         1,930      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        56.5          1          4         7        34
Devonshire St. west of Louise Ave.                6           0        28,220      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.4         42        130       256      1,251
Devonshire St. west of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        28,965      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.5         43        133       262      1,283
Devonshire St. east of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        29,250      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.6         43        134       265      1,296
Devonshire St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            6           0        29,460      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.6         43        135       267      1,305
Lassen St. west of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        26,485      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.6         22         69       136       666
Lassen St. east of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        25,525      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.5         21         67       131       642
Louise Ave. north of Chatsworth St.               2           0         6,630      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        61.9          4         12        23       114
Louise Ave. south of Chatsworth St.               4           0         6,850      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        63.8          6         18        36       176
Louise Ave. north of Devonshire St.               4           0         7,595      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        64.2          6         20        40       195
Louise Ave. south of Devonshire St.               4           0         8,380      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        64.6          7         22        44       214
Balboa Blvd. north of Chatsworth St.              6           0        32,620      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.0         48        149       295      1,442
Balboa Blvd. south of Chatsworth St.              6           0        29,585      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.6         44        136       268      1,310
Balboa Blvd. north of Devonshire St.              6           0        33,045      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.1         49        151       299      1,461
Balboa Blvd. south of Devonshire St.              6           0        31,530      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.9         46        144       285      1,395
Balboa Blvd. south of Lassen St.                  6           0        28,775      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.5         42        132       261      1,275
Havenhurst Ave. north of Chatsworth St.           4           0        16,460      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.6         14         43        85       417
Havenhurst Ave. south of Chatsworth St.           4           0        15,120      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.2         13         40        78       383
Havenhurst Ave. north of Devonshire St.           4           0        15,760      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.4         13         41        82       399
Havenhurst Ave. south of Devonshire St.           4           0        14,975      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.2         13         39        78       380
(1) Alpha Factor: Coefficient of absorption relating to the effects of the ground surface. An alpha factor of 0 indicates that the site
is an acoustically "hard" site such as aspalt. An alpha factor of 0.5 indicates that the site is an acoustically "soft" site such as
vegetative ground cover.
(2) Distance to centerline of roadway.
Assumed 24-Hour Traffic Distribution:           Day       Evening      Night
Total ADT Volumes                              77.70%     12.70%       9.60%
Medium-Duty Trucks                             87.43%      5.05%       7.52%
Heavy-Duty Trucks                              89.10%      2.84%       8.06%
Table N-2
ON-SITE NOISE LEVEL CONTOURS - Future 2010 without Project ADT Volumes


                                                                                Design                 Vehicle Mix                         Distance from Center of Roadway
ROADWAY NAME                                             Median      ADT        Speed      Alpha Medium Heavy                 Ldn at           DISTANCE TO CONTOUR
                                   Segment     Lanes     Width      Volume      (mph)     Factor(1) Trucks     Trucks       40 Feet(2)    75 Ldn    70 Ldn    67 Ldn    60 Ldn

Chatsworth St. west of Louise Ave.                4           0        23,455      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.1         20         61       121       591
Chatsworth St. west of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        23,430      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.1         20         61       121       590
Chatsworth St. east of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        17,175      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.7         14         45        89       435
Chatsworth St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            4           0        16,810      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.7         14         44        87       426
San Jose St. west of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         3,355      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        58.9          2          6        12        59
San Jose St. east of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         2,075      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        56.8          1          4         7        36
Devonshire St. west of Louise Ave.                6           0        30,890      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.8         46        142       280      1,367
Devonshire St. west of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        31,700      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.9         47        145       287      1,402
Devonshire St. east of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        30,560      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.8         45        140       277      1,353
Devonshire St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            6           0        33,130      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.1         49        152       300      1,465
Lassen St. west of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        30,490      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        70.2         25         79       156       765
Lassen St. east of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        28,515      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        70.0         24         74       146       716
Louise Ave. north of Chatsworth St.               2           0         7,355      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        62.3          4         13        26       127
Louise Ave. south of Chatsworth St.               4           0         7,590      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        64.2          6         20        40       195
Louise Ave. north of Devonshire St.               4           0         8,395      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        64.6          7         22        44       215
Louise Ave. south of Devonshire St.               4           0         9,245      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        65.1          8         24        48       236
Balboa Blvd. north of Chatsworth St.              6           0        36,080      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.5         53        165       326      1,593
Balboa Blvd. south of Chatsworth St.              6           0        32,735      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.1         48        150       296      1,447
Balboa Blvd. north of Devonshire St.              6           0        36,455      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.5         54        167       329      1,609
Balboa Blvd. south of Devonshire St.              6           0        34,780      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.3         51        159       314      1,536
Balboa Blvd. south of Lassen St.                  6           0        31,480      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.9         46        144       285      1,393
Havenhurst Ave. north of Chatsworth St.           4           0        18,115      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        68.0         15         47        94       458
Havenhurst Ave. south of Chatsworth St.           4           0        16,605      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.6         14         44        86       420
Havenhurst Ave. north of Devonshire St.           4           0        17,280      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.8         15         45        89       437
Havenhurst Ave. south of Devonshire St.           4           0        16,380      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.5         14         43        85       415
(1) Alpha Factor: Coefficient of absorption relating to the effects of the ground surface. An alpha factor of 0 indicates that the site
is an acoustically "hard" site such as aspalt. An alpha factor of 0.5 indicates that the site is an acoustically "soft" site such as
vegetative ground cover.
(2) Distance to centerline of roadway.
Assumed 24-Hour Traffic Distribution:           Day       Evening      Night
Total ADT Volumes                              77.70%     12.70%       9.60%
Medium-Duty Trucks                             87.43%      5.05%       7.52%
Heavy-Duty Trucks                              89.10%      2.84%       8.06%
Table N-3
ON-SITE NOISE LEVEL CONTOURS - Future 2010 with Project ADT Volumes


                                                                                Design                 Vehicle Mix                         Distance from Center of Roadway
ROADWAY NAME                                             Median      ADT        Speed      Alpha Medium Heavy                 Ldn at           DISTANCE TO CONTOUR
                                   Segment     Lanes     Width      Volume      (mph)     Factor(1) Trucks     Trucks       40 Feet(2)    75 Ldn    70 Ldn    67 Ldn    60 Ldn

Chatsworth St. west of Louise Ave.                4           0        23,690      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.1         20         62       122       597
Chatsworth St. west of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        23,760      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        69.2         20         62       122       598
Chatsworth St. east of Balboa Blvd.               4           0        17,475      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.8         15         46        90       442
Chatsworth St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            4           0        17,050      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.7         14         45        88       432
San Jose St. west of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         4,130      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        59.8          2          7        15        72
San Jose St. east of Balboa Blvd.                 2           0         2,820      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        58.2          2          5        10        49
Devonshire St. west of Louise Ave.                6           0        38,765      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.8         57        177       350      1,710
Devonshire St. west of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        32,025      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.0         47        147       290      1,417
Devonshire St. east of Balboa Blvd.               6           0        30,900      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.8         46        142       280      1,368
Devonshire St. east of Havenhurst Ave.            6           0        33,475      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.2         49        153       303      1,480
Lassen St. west of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        30,455      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        70.2         25         79       156       764
Lassen St. east of Balboa Blvd.                   4           0        28,560      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        70.0         24         74       147       717
Louise Ave. north of Chatsworth St.               2           0         7,575      35        0        1.8%        0.7%        62.4          4         14        27       131
Louise Ave. south of Chatsworth St.               4           0         7,775      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        64.3          7         21        41       199
Louise Ave. north of Devonshire St.               4           0         9,280      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        65.1          8         25        48       237
Louise Ave. south of Devonshire St.               4           0         9,740      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        65.3          8         26        51       249
Balboa Blvd. north of Chatsworth St.              6           0        36,455      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.5         54        167       329      1,609
Balboa Blvd. south of Chatsworth St.              6           0        33,710      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.2         50        154       305      1,490
Balboa Blvd. north of Devonshire St.              6           0        37,380      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.6         55        171       337      1,649
Balboa Blvd. south of Devonshire St.              6           0        35,010      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        73.3         52        160       316      1,546
Balboa Blvd. south of Lassen St.                  6           0        31,620      45        0        1.8%        0.7%        72.9         47        145       286      1,399
Havenhurst Ave. north of Chatsworth St.           4           0        18,320      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        68.0         15         48        95       463
Havenhurst Ave. south of Chatsworth St.           4           0        16,435      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.6         14         43        85       416
Havenhurst Ave. north of Devonshire St.           4           0        18,130      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        68.0         15         47        94       459
Havenhurst Ave. south of Devonshire St.           4           0        16,850      40        0        1.8%        0.7%        67.7         14         44        87       427
(1) Alpha Factor: Coefficient of absorption relating to the effects of the ground surface. An alpha factor of 0 indicates that the site
is an acoustically "hard" site such as aspalt. An alpha factor of 0.5 indicates that the site is an acoustically "soft" site such as
vegetative ground cover.
(2) Distance to centerline of roadway.
Assumed 24-Hour Traffic Distribution:           Day       Evening      Night
Total ADT Volumes                              77.70%     12.70%       9.60%
Medium-Duty Trucks                             87.43%      5.05%       7.52%
Heavy-Duty Trucks                              89.10%      2.84%       8.06%
       APPENDIX D
Traffic Impact Study
                                                               DRAFT




          TRAFFIC IMPACT REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED
                 VALLEY REGION HIGH SCHOOL # 4
                 (Located on the Southwest corner of
                Balboa Boulevard and San Jose Street)




Prepared for:

           LAUSD Office of Environmental Health & Safety




Prepared by:

                           Crain & Associates
                     2007 Sawtelle Boulevard, Suite 4
                      Los Angeles, California 90025
                            (310) 473-6508


                                                           March 2006
                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The project under consideration is a high school with 1,215 seats in 45 classrooms, on
a site which was occupied by the Granada Hills Community Hospital. The project site is
located on the Southwest corner of Balboa Boulevard and San Jose Street, which is
within the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan Area of the City of Los Angeles.
The proposed high school will be used as an adult night school during night, with 450
students in 15 classrooms. The proposed project, once completed, would result in a net
decrease in daily trips, and a net increase of 443 trips during the AM peak hour and 241
trips during PM peak hour (The trip credit of the existing 201-bed hospital was taken in
the calculation of the future project traffic volumes, based on the "Los Angeles
Department of Transportation (LADOT) Traffic Study Policies and Procedures, Revised
March 2002").

The project site is approximately 9.6 acres and currently contains a recently vacated
201-bed hospital facility.* Project Construction would require the demolition of the
existing on-site buildings.

Parking for the project would be provided in the multi-level parking structure located
adjacent to the south side of the project site. Though the structure contains a total of
361 spaces, only 113 of the spaces would be designated for use by the school. Access
to the parking structure would be provided via a driveway for both ingress and egress
traffic with right-turn-out along Balboa Boulevard at the southern boundary of the
project. (Left-turn-out will not be allowed from this driveway due to safety concerns
involved with the high speeds and volumes on Balboa Boulevard, which is a Class II
major highway.) Access to the drop-off and loading zone would be provided via a right-
turn-in only driveway along Balboa Boulevard near the north end of the site. Egress
from the drop-off and loading zone would be provided by a right-turn-out only driveway
to Balboa Boulevard at the south end of the loading zone.


*
    Granada Hills Community Hospital property information, Madison Partners.
                                                     i
This analysis incorporates a detailed evaluation of existing (2005) and future (2010)
traffic conditions at eight study intersections during the AM and PM peak hours and
weekday conditions along two residential segments surrounding the project site. The
results of this analysis show that the proposed project would potentially have significant
impacts at six intersections. These significant impacts are located at the intersections
of Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard, San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard,
Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue, Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard,
Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue, Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard.

In order to reduce the project traffic impacts to less than a level of significance, these

intersections were closely examined to determine if any feasible improvements were

available. The following mitigation measures are recommended:

   Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard - The recommended mitigation measure at
   this intersection includes restriping the Chatsworth Street westbound and eastbound
   intersection approaches, to provide a second left-turn-only lane to the eastbound
   approach. This improvement would change the existing eastbound approach from
   one left-turn-only lane, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane to two left-
   turn-only lanes, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane. This measure was
   selected as it will have limited secondary impacts but will mitigate the project traffic
   impact at this intersection to less than a significant level.

   San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard - The recommended mitigation measure at
   this intersection includes restriping the San Jose Street eastbound intersection
   approach, to provide one left/through shared lane and one right-turn-only lane to the
   eastbound approach. This improvement would change the existing eastbound
   approach from one left/through/right shared lane to one left/through shared lane and
   one right-turn-only lane. This measure was selected as it will have limited
   secondary impacts but will mitigate the project traffic impact at this intersection to
   less than a significant level.



                                              ii
   Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue - Contribute to the installation of the City of
   Los Angeles' Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) for traffic signal control. This
   traffic signal coordination system monitors traffic demands throughout the network
   on which it is installed, and adjusts traffic signal timing and coordination in real time
   to maximize capacity and decrease delay. This measure will mitigate the project's
   traffic impact to less than significance at this intersection.

   Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard ­ No applicable mitigation measures have
   been identified that would not require the widening of the roadway. Therefore, the
   project traffic impact at this intersection would remain as significant and unavoidable.

   Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue - The recommended mitigation
   measure at this intersection includes restriping the Devonshire Street westbound
   intersection approach, to add one additional westbound through travel lane to the
   west leg of the intersection. This improvement will extend the existing three
   westbound travel lanes at the intersection of Devonshire Street and Balboa
   Boulevard. This improvement would change the existing westbound approach from
   one left-turn-only lane, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane to one left-
   turn-only lane, two through lanes and one through/right shared lane. This measure
   was selected as it will have limited secondary impacts but will mitigate the project
   traffic impact at this intersection to less than a significant level.

   Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard - Contribute to the installation of the City of Los
   Angeles' Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) for traffic signal control. This will
   mitigate the project's traffic impact to less than significance at this intersection.

Implementation of the mitigation measures recommended above would reduce 5 of the

6 project's traffic impacts to less than significant levels. The project traffic impact at the

intersection of Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard would remain as significant and

unavoidable.

Future parking demand, parking supply and on-street parking capacity were analyzed in

this study. The proposed project will not provide enough on-site parking, and the
                                            iii
neighborhood on-street parking capacity will not satisfy the future project parking

demand. Therefore, a program to reduce demand is recommended. This

Transportation Demand Management (TDM) program should include measures such as

public transit information, carpool matching and encouragement to use non-vehicular

modes (e.g. walking and bicycling).

Existing pedestrian-oriented traffic controls and future pedestrian volumes were

analyzed in this study. The existing pedestrian-oriented traffic controls will not satisfy

the future pedestrian safety requirement. Pedestrian routes are recommended based

on providing access to the site via crosswalks at signalized intersections and avoiding

unsignalized/unmarked intersections and mid-block crossing. All recommended

pedestrian routes would have paved concrete sidewalks. In addition to the

recommended pedestrian routes, the following pedestrian safety mitigation measures

are recommended:

       Provide striped yellow crosswalks on the following intersections:

       o Germain Street and Balboa Boulevard (West Leg Only)
       o San Jose Street and Genesta Avenue (North Leg, South Leg and East Leg)
       o San Jose Street and McLennan Avenue (South Leg Only)
       o San Jose Street and Forbes Avenue (North Leg Only)

       Change the following crosswalks to yellow (school) markings:

       o San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard
       o Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard

       Install Stop Control at the following intersection:
       o Install One-Way Stop on west leg of Minnehaha Street at Genesta Avenue

       Post School Speed Limit Sign on all school zone approaches

       o Along Balboa Boulevard
       o Along San Jose Street
                                              iv
        Sidewalk Gap Closure

        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on Genesta
          Avenue between San Jose Street and Kingsbury Street
        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on Kingsbury
          Street between Balboa Boulevard and Genesta Avenue
        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on San Jose
          Street west of Amestoy Avenue

These yellow crosswalks recommended above are within 600 feet of the school, as

required for yellow markings by vehicle code section 21368.**




 In unusual circumstances, which do not apply in this case, the vehicle code allows a 2800 foot limit to
be used.
                                                    v
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                              Page
Introduction ..............................................................................................................     1
Project Description ...................................................................................................         5
Environmental Setting ..............................................................................................            7
     Freeways..........................................................................................................         7
       Streets and Highways ......................................................................................              8
       Public Transit ...................................................................................................      10
       Existing Traffic Volumes...................................................................................             13
       Analysis of Existing Traffic Conditions..............................................................                   17
Project Traffic ...........................................................................................................    21
       Traffic Generation ............................................................................................         21
       Trip Distribution ................................................................................................      22
       Trip Assignment ...............................................................................................         23
       Project Site Access ..........................................................................................          23
       Parking Analysis...............................................................................................         27
Pedestrian Analysis..................................................................................................          36
    Pedestrian Volumes .........................................................................................               36
       Existing Pedestrian Control ..............................................................................              37
Future Traffic Conditions ..........................................................................................           40
     Traffic Growth...................................................................................................         40
       Cumulative Development .................................................................................                40
       Highway System Improvements.......................................................................                      49
       Analysis of Future Traffic Conditions................................................................                   49
       Project Intersection Impacts .............................................................................              50
       Residential Street Traffic Impact Analysis........................................................                      53
       Analysis of Future Freeway Conditions ............................................................                      55
Mitigation Measures .................................................................................................          57
     Traffic Impact Mitigation Measures ..................................................................                     57
       Parking Impact Mitigation Measures ................................................................                     60
       Recommended Pedestrian Routes and Mitigation Measures...........................                                        60
Appendix A         --   Manual Study Intersection Counts
Appendix B         --   Automated Study Street Segment Counts
Appendix C         --   CMA Calculation Worksheets
Appendix D         --   Signed MOU from LADOT
Appendix E         --   Conceptual Mitigation Plan
                                                                vi
                                                LIST OF FIGURES
Figure No.                                                                                                      Page
   1       Site Vicinity Map...................................................................................   3
     2         Study Intersection Locations ................................................................                4
     3         Site Plan...............................................................................................     6
     4         Existing (2005) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes..........................................                         14
     5         Project Trip Distribution Percentages ...................................................                   24
     6         Project Traffic Volumes ........................................................................            25
     7         Neighborhood On-Street Parking Supply .............................................                         31
     8         Neighborhood On-Street Parking Supply (8:00 AM) ............................                                32
     9         Neighborhood On-Street Parking Supply (12:00 PM)...........................                                 33
   10          Neighborhood On-Street Parking Supply (2:30 PM) ............................                                34
   11          Neighborhood On-Street Parking Supply (7:00 PM) ............................                                35
   12          Existing Pedestrian System..................................................................                39
   13          Related Projects Locations...................................................................               43
   14          Related Projects Traffic Volumes .........................................................                  45
   15          Future (2010) Traffic Volumes - Without Project ..................................                          47
   16          Future (2010) Traffic Volumes - With Project .......................................                        51
   17          Recommended Pedestrian System ......................................................                        62

                                                 LIST OF TABLES
Table No.                                                                                                                 Page
     1        Critical Volume Ranges - Levels of Service.........................................                          19
     2        Level of Service - CMA Values ............................................................                   19
     3        Critical Movement Analysis (2005) - Existing Conditions.....................                                 20
     4        Project Trip Generation Rates .............................................................                  21
     5        Project Trip Generation .......................................................................              22
     6        Directional Trip Distribution..................................................................              23
     7        Neighborhood On-Street Parking Demand ..........................................                             30
     8        Related Project Trip Generation Rates and Equations ........................                                 42
     9        Related Projects Locations, Descriptions and Trip Generations..........                                      44
   10         Critical Movement Analysis (2010) - Without and With Project............                                     53
   11         Residential Street Significant Impact Criteria.......................................                        54
   12         Residential Street Traffic Impact Analysis ...........................................                       54
   13         Critical Movement Analysis (2010) - Without and With Mitigation........                                      59
                                                             vii
                                     INTRODUCTION

The project under consideration is a high school with 1,215 seats in 45 classrooms, on

a site which was occupied by the Granada Hills Community Hospital. The project site is

located on the Southwest corner of Balboa Boulevard and San Jose Street, which is

within the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan Area of the City of Los Angeles.

The proposed high school will be used as an adult night school during night, with 450

students in 15 classrooms. The location of the site is shown in Figure 1, Site Vicinity

Map.

The Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) has retained Crain & Associates to

conduct a traffic study to assess the impact of the proposed development on the

surrounding street system. This report was prepared per the guidelines in the

Memorandum Of Cooperation between LAUSD and the City of Los Angeles Department

of Transportation (LADOT), dated June 24, 2005. This study presents the results of an

analysis of existing conditions as well as estimated future traffic conditions for daily, AM

and PM peak hours. This analysis incorporates a detailed evaluation of existing and

future traffic conditions at the following eight intersections and two street segments:

       Study Intersections

       1.     Chatsworth Street and Louise Avenue
       2.     Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard
       3.     Chatsworth Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue
       4.     San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard
       5.     Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue
       6.     Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard
       7.     Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue
       8.     Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard




                                             1
       Street Segments Locations

       1.     San Jose Street west of the project site
       2.     Genesta Avenue south of San Jose Street

The study intersections and the street segments are shown in Figure 2. These

intersections and street segments are near the project site, and the intersections are all

signalized and expected to be most directly impacted by the project traffic.




                                            2
                                PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The project under consideration is a high school with 1,215 seats in 45 classrooms, on

a site which was occupied by the Granada Hills Community Hospital. The project site is

located on the Southwest corner of Balboa Boulevard and San Jose Street, which is

within the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community Plan Area of the City of Los Angeles.

The proposed high school will be used as an adult night school during night, with 450

students in 15 classrooms. The project site plan is illustrated in Figure 3.

The project site is approximately 9.6 acres and currently contains a recently vacated
201-bed hospital facility. Project Construction would require the demolition of the
existing on-site buildings.

Parking for the project would be provided in the multi-level parking structure located
adjacent to the south side of the project site. Though the structure contains a total of
361 spaces, only 113 of the spaces would be designated for use by the school. Access
to the parking structure would be provided via a driveway for both ingress and egress
traffic with right-turn-out along Balboa Boulevard at the southern boundary of the
project. (Left-turn-out will not be allowed from this driveway due to safety concerns
involved with the high speeds and volumes on Balboa Boulevard, which is a Class II
major highway.) Access to the drop-off and loading zone would be provided via a right-
turn-in only driveway along Balboa Boulevard near the north end of the site. Egress
from the drop-off and loading zone would be provided by a right-turn-out only driveway
to Balboa Boulevard at the south end of the loading zone.




                                             5
                              ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING

The site of the proposed project is located on the Southwest corner of Balboa Boulevard

and San Jose Street within the Granada Hills-Knollwood Community of the City of Los

Angeles. The surrounding area is developed with a variety of commercial and

residential land uses.

In the area surrounding the project site, multi-family residential uses and commercial

establishments front Balboa Boulevard and Devonshire Street (an east-west street

one-eighth of a mile south of the school site), single-family residential uses are

generally located in the area behind these commercial and multi-family components.

The project site and surrounding uses are well-served by a developed local and regional

transportation system. Balboa Boulevard and Devonshire Street are major highways

that serve as the primary access routes to and from the proposed project site.

Additionally, the Ronald Reagan Freeway (SR- 118), the San Diego Freeway (I- 405)

are approximately one and a half miles north and east of the site, respectively and

provide regional access.

Freeways

The Ronald Reagan Freeway (SR-118) is an east-west oriented freeway located

approximately one and a half mile north of the project site. At Balboa Boulevard, the

Ronald Reagan Freeway provides four mixed mode travel lanes and one rideshare lane

in each direction. This route transitions to a freeway west of the project in Ventura

County at its interchange with State Route 23 in Moorpark and continuing through the

San Fernando Valley with full interchanges at the San Diego (I-405) and Golden State

Freeway (I-5). State Route 118 terminates at the Foothill Freeway (I-210) in the Lake




                                             7
View Terrace community within the east San Fernando Valley. In the project vicinity,

full interchanges are provided north of the project site at Balboa Boulevard.

The San Diego Freeway (I-405) is the key north-south route along the west side of Los

Angeles and across the middle of the San Fernando Valley. In the project vicinity, this

freeway generally provides four mixed flow lanes and one HOV travel lane per direction,

plus auxiliary lanes for some interchanges. The San Diego Freeway is a western

alternate to the Golden State Freeway (I-5), diverging from that freeway near the Sylmar

community at the north edge of the San Fernando Valley. The routes reconnect again

to the south in the City of Irvine in Orange County. In addition to the San Fernando

Valley, the I-405 freeway serves the entire western portion of the Los Angeles basin,

including the Los Angeles International Airport. In the project vicinity, a full interchange

is provided at Devonshire Street to the east of the project site.

Streets and Highways

Balboa Boulevard is a north-south Major Highway, Class II, which forms the eastern

boundary of the project site. This roadway is a continuous facility across the central

part of the San Fernando Valley, and is approximately one and a half miles west of the

San Diego Freeway. On the north end, Balboa Boulevard starts from Foothill Boulevard

just north of the Golden State Freeway. It extends southerly across the Golden State

Freeway, the Ronald Reagan Freeway and the Ventura Freeway, and terminates at

Ventura Boulevard just south of the Ventura Freeway. It continues southerly as Balboa

Avenue for approximately one-half mile south of Ventura Boulevard. In the project

vicinity, this roadway provides three through lanes in each direction with a curb-to-curb

width of approximately 80 feet. Balboa Boulevard provides left-turn channelization at

major intersections, including Chatsworth Street, San Jose Street, Devonshire Street,

Lassen Street.



                                             8
Devonshire Street is an east-west Major Highway, Class II. This roadway is a

continuous facility across the northern part of the west San Fernando Valley, and is

approximately one and a half miles south of the Ronald Reagan Freeway. To the west,

Devonshire Street starts from west of Valley Circle Boulevard. Devonshire Street

extends easterly across the San Diego Freeway to Arleta Avenue. In the project

vicinity, this roadway provides two to three through lanes in each direction with a width

varies from approximately 75 feet to 80 feet. This roadway provides left-turn

channelization at major intersections, including Louise Avenue, Balboa Boulevard and

Hayvenhurst Avenue.

San Jose Street is an east-west Collector Street in the project vicinity and forms the

northern boundary of the project. San Jose Street is a discontinuous facility, with

segments extending between Valley Circle Boulevard to the west and the Golden State

Freeway to the east. In the project vicinity, this roadway provides one through lane in

each direction with a width of approximately 40 feet and left-turn channelization at

Balboa Boulevard.

Chatsworth Street is an east-west Secondary Highway in the project vicinity. To the

west, Chatsworth Street starts west of Topanga Canyon Boulevard, and is

discontinuous at the Monteria Estates area. To the east, Chatsworth Street extends

across the San Diego Freeway, the Ronald Reagan Freeway and the Golden State

Freeway and terminates at Truman Street. In the project vicinity, this roadway provides

two through lanes in each direction with a width varying from approximately 60 feet to

80 feet. This roadway provides left-turn channelization at major intersections, including

Louise Avenue, Balboa Boulevard and Hayvenhurst Avenue.

Lassen Street is an east-west Secondary Highway. This roadway is a continuous

facility across the northern part of the west San Fernando Valley, and is approximately

two miles south of the Ronald Reagan Freeway. To the west, Lassen Street starts from

                                            9
Valley Circle Boulevard, extends easterly across the San Diego Freeway and terminates

at Woodman Avenue. In the project vicinity, this roadway provides two through lanes in

each direction with a width varies from approximately 60 feet to 70 feet. This roadway

provides left-turn channelization at major intersections, including Louise Avenue, Balboa

Boulevard and Hayvenhurst Avenue.

Louise Avenue is a north-south Secondary Highway in the project vicinity. Louise

Avenue is a discontinuous facility. Segments extend between the areas north of Rinaldi

Street and south of Ventura Boulevard discontinuously. In the project vicinity, this

roadway provides two through lanes in each direction south of Chatsworth Street and

one through lane in each direction north of Chatsworth Street with a width varies from

approximately 30 feet to 65 feet. Louise Avenue provides left-turn channelization at

major intersections, including Devonshire Street.

Hayvenhurst Avenue is a north-south Secondary Highway in the project vicinity. This

roadway is a discontinuous facility. Segments extend between Rinaldi Street to the

north and Mulholland Drive to the south discontinuously. In the project vicinity, this

roadway provides two through lanes in each direction with a width of approximately 60

to 65 feet. Left-turn channelization is provided at major intersections, including

Chatsworth Street and Lassen Street.

Public Transit

In addition to the existing streets and highways serving the project area, the Los Angeles

County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) provides an extensive system of bus

and rail lines throughout the Granada Hills ­ Knollwood community. Current regional

transit information available through the MTA indicates that several bus routes have stops

within a reasonable walking distance (approximately one-quarter mile) of the project site.

In addition, LADOT also provides several Commuter Express routes near the project site


                                            10
which serve the local Granada Hills ­ Knollwood area and surrounding communities.

When transfer opportunities are considered, the bus and rail lines outlined below provide

access between the project site and key destinations throughout the Los Angeles

metropolitan area. The routes in the immediate project vicinity are described below.

MTA Bus Service

    Line 158 - Line 158 provides service between Chatsworth, Northridge, Granada

    Hills, North Hills, Arleta, Panorama City, Van Nuys and Sherman Oaks. In the

    project vicinity, Line 158 provides service along Devonshire Street and stops on

    Devonshire Street at Balboa Boulevard. Weekday service on Line 158 is provided

    on headways of approximately 15 to 30 minutes during AM peak hours, and one

    hour for the rest of the day. Saturday, Sunday and holiday service is provided on

    headways of approximately one hour.

    Line 236/237 - Line 236/237 provide service between Encino, Northridge,

    Granada Hills, North Hills, Sylmar and San Fernando. In the project vicinity, Line

    236/237 provide service along Balboa Boulevard and stops on Balboa Boulevard at

    Devonshire Street and San Jose Street. Weekday service on Line 236/237 are

    provided on headways of approximately 10 to 30 minutes during AM and PM peak

    hours, and one hour for the remainder of the day. Saturday, Sunday and holiday

    service is provided by Line 236 on headways of approximately one hour. Line 237

    does not operate on Saturday, Sunday or holidays.

LADOT Bus Service

    Commuter Express 419 provides access from Chatsworth Park to the Downtown

    Los Angeles area in the morning and reverse service in the evening. Service is

    provided to Chatsworth , Northridge, Granada Hills, Mission Hills, Downtown Los

    Angeles and Exposition Park/USC. In the project vicinity, this line operates along

                                           11
    Devonshire Street with a stop provided at Balboa Boulevard. This commuter route

    operates Monday through Friday only during the peak commute hours, on

    headways of approximately 15 to 20 minutes.

    Commuter Express 573 provides access from Chatsworth to Century City (with less

    reverse service) in the morning, and from Century City to Chatsworth (with less

    reverse service) in the evening. Along the route, service is provided to Mission

    Hills, Granada Hills, Northridge, North Hills, Reseda, Encino, Westwood and

    Century City. In the project vicinity, this line operates along Balboa Boulevard and

    Chatsworth Street with a stop provided on Balboa Boulevard at Devonshire Street.

    This commuter route operates Monday through Friday only, on headways of

    approximately 15 to 20 minutes.

    Commuter Express 574 provides access from Sylmar Metrolink Station to the LAX

    area in the morning and reverse service in the evening. Along the route, service is

    provided to Sylmar, Granada Hills, North Hills, Reseda, Encino LAX and El

    Segundo. In the project vicinity, this line operates along Balboa Boulevard and

    Chatsworth Street with a stop provided on Balboa Boulevard at Devonshire Street.

    This commuter route operates Monday through Friday only during the peak

    commute hours, on headways of approximately 25 to 30 minutes.

In addition to the lines detailed above which provide direct service to the project, several

additional lines serve the adjacent areas. When transfer opportunities are considered,

much of the San Fernando Valley and Los Angeles metropolitan region is accessible via

public transportation to and from the project site. Thus, it is possible that some school

staff and students of the proposed development will utilize public transportation as their

primary travel mode. However, in order to present the most conservative analysis of the

potential traffic impacts for the proposed project, no trip generation reduction was

assumed for public transportation usage.

                                            12
Existing Traffic Volumes

Traffic volumes for existing conditions at seven of the eight study intersections were

obtained from manual traffic counts conducted in December 2004 by Crain &

Associates. The traffic count at the intersection of San Jose Street and Balboa

Boulevard was obtained from the LADOT database, and was collected in September

2004. The 2004 counts were adjusted with ambient growth so that all data used in this

report represent the existing 2005 non-summer peak hour traffic volumes at each of the

eight study intersections. The counts cover the weekday 7:00 to 9:00 AM peak morning

traffic period and 4:00 to 6:00 PM peak afternoon traffic period. Peak-hour volumes

were determined individually for each intersection based on the combined four highest

consecutive 15-minute volumes for all vehicular movements at the intersection.

Weekday AM and PM peak-hour volumes at the study intersections are detailed on the

pages that follow and are illustrated in Figures 4(a) and 4(b), respectively. The manual

intersection traffic count data sheets are provided in Appendix A. Information pertaining

to intersection widths and geometrics, bus stop locations, on-street parking restrictions,

and traffic signal operations were obtained from field surveys in the study area.

Automated 24-hour traffic counts were collected in March 2005 by Crain & Associates at

the two residential street locations on San Jose Street and Genesta Avenue. The

automatic traffic count data sheets are provided in Appendix B.

The Ronald Reagan Freeway is one of the most important traffic facilities in the San

Fernando Valley. According to the most current (2004) data available through the

Caltrans Website, between Balboa Boulevard and Hayvenhurst Avenue the Ronald

Reagan Freeway carries in excess of 227,000 vehicles per day (VPD), with peak hour

traffic volumes approaching 21,600 vehicles per hour (VPH). The San Diego Freeway




                                            13
is a heavily traveled facility with access provided between Orange County and the San

Fernando Valley. According to the most current (2004) data available through the

Caltrans Website, between San Fernando Mission Boulevard and the Ronald Reagan

Freeway interchange the San Diego Freeway carries in excess of 148,000 vehicles per

day (VPD), with peak hour traffic volumes approaching 10,900 vehicles per hour (VPH).

Traffic counts were examined to determine daily traffic volumes on surface street

segments and Balboa Boulevard at Devonshire Street carries approximately 31,300

VPD. Directional peak hour volumes on Balboa Boulevard at this location are

approximately 1,310 VPH northbound and 1,710 VPH southbound in the morning.

Devonshire Street at Balboa Boulevard carries approximately 30,200 VPD. Directional

peak hour volumes on Devonshire Street at this location are approximately 1,660 VPH

westbound and 1,370 VPH eastbound in the morning.

San Jose Street at Balboa Boulevard carries approximately 2,500 VPD. Directional

peak hour volumes on San Jose Street at this location are approximately 140 VPH

westbound and 140 VPH eastbound in the morning.

Chatsworth Street at Balboa Boulevard carries approximately 18,800 VPD. Directional

peak hour volumes on Chatsworth Street at this location are approximately 520 VPH

westbound and 1,320 VPH eastbound in the morning.

Lassen Street at Balboa Boulevard carries approximately 26,300 VPD. Directional peak

hour volumes on Lassen Street at this location are approximately 1,520 VPH westbound

and 1,430 VPH eastbound in the morning.

Louise Avenue at Devonshire Street carries approximately 8,100 VPD. Directional peak

hour volumes on Louise Avenue at this location are approximately 380 VPH northbound

and 660 VPH southbound in the morning.



                                          16
Hayvenhurst Avenue at Devonshire Street carries approximately 15,200 VPD.

Directional peak hour volumes on Hayvenhurst Avenue at this location are

approximately 540 VPH northbound and 1,010 VPH southbound in the morning.

Analysis of Existing Traffic Conditions

A detailed analysis of current traffic conditions was made of the following eight

intersections in the vicinity of the proposed project. These locations were selected in

consultation with LADOT:

       1.     Chatsworth Street and Louise Avenue
       2.     Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard
       3.     Chatsworth Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue
       4.     San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard
       5.     Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue
       6.     Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard
       7.     Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue
       8.     Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard

The traffic analysis was performed through the use of the Critical Movement Analysis
(CMA) technique. The AM and PM peak hours were examined in detail in this study.
The new traffic counts described earlier were used in order to report existing traffic flow
conditions in the study area. Other data pertaining to intersection geometrics, on-street
parking restrictions, and traffic signal operations were obtained through field surveys of
the study locations.

The CMA methodology used for the analysis and evaluation of traffic conditions at each

study intersection is based on procedures outlined in Circular Number 212 of the

Transportation Research Board.1 In the discussion of Critical Movement Analysis for

signalized intersections, procedures have been developed for grading the operational




                                            17
quality of an intersection in terms of the "Level of Service" which describes different

traffic flow characteristics. Levels of Service A to C operate quite well. Level D typically

is the level for which a metropolitan area street system is designed. Level E represents

volumes at or near the capacity of the highway that will result in stoppages of

momentary duration and fairly unstable flow. Level F occurs when a facility is

overloaded and is characterized by stop-and-go traffic with stoppages of long duration.

A determination of the Level of Service at an intersection, where traffic volumes are

known or have been projected, can be obtained through a summation of the critical

movement volumes at that intersection: the highest combination of conflicting

movements which must be accommodated at that intersection. Once the sum of critical

movement volumes has been obtained, the values indicated in Table 1 can be used to

determine the applicable Level of Service. "Capacity" represents the maximum volume

of vehicles in the critical lanes which have a reasonable expectation of passing through

an intersection in one hour, under prevailing roadway and traffic conditions. For

planning purposes, the maximum theoretical capacity of an intersection equates to the

Critical Movement Volume values for Level of Service E conditions as shown in Table 1.

This capacity varies depending on the type of traffic signal control present or proposed

at an intersection. The Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) ratios used in this study were

calculated by dividing the sum of the critical traffic movement volumes at an intersection

by the appropriate intersection capacity value obtained from Table 1. The Level of

Service corresponding to a range of CMA values is shown in Table 2.




1
    Interim Materials on Highway Capacity, Circular Number 212, Transportation Research Board,
    Washington, D.C., 1980.

                                                   18
                                    Table 1
                       Critical Movement Volume Ranges*
                       For Determining Levels of Service

                             Maximum Sum of Critical Volumes (VPH)
           Level of            Two             Three            Four or
           Service           Phase             Phase        More Phases
              A                 900              855               825
              B               1,050            1,000               965
              C               1,200            1,140            1,100
              D               1,350            1,275            1,225
              E               1,500            1,425            1,375
              F              --------------Not Applicable---------------
           * For planning applications only, i.e., not appropriate for operations
             and design applications.




                                     Table 2
                                 Level of Service
                           As a Function of CMA Values
Level of                                                                             Range of
Service          Description of Operating Characteristics                           CMA Values
    A            Uncongested operations; all vehicles clear                               < 0.60
                 in a single cycle.
    B            Same as above.                                                     >0.60 < 0.70
    C            Light congestion; occasional backups on                            >0.70 < 0.80
                 critical approaches.
    D            Congestion on critical approaches, but                             >0.80 < 0.90
                 intersection functional. Vehicles required
                 to wait through more than one cycle during
                 short peaks. No long-standing lines formed.
    E            Severe congestion with some long-standing                          >0.90 < 1.00
                 lines on critical approaches. Blockage of
                 intersection may occur if traffic signal does
                 not provide for protected turning movements.

    F            Forced flow with stoppages of long duration.                             > 1.00




                                            19
By applying this analysis procedure to the study intersections, the Critical Movement

Analysis (CMA) value and the corresponding Levels of Service (LOS) for existing traffic

conditions were determined. Those values, for existing (2005) AM and PM peak hour

conditions, are shown in Table 3.

                                        Table 3
                        Critical Movement Analysis Summary
                              Existing (2005) Conditions

                                                    AM Peak Hour         PM Peak Hour
 No. Intersection                                   CMA      LOS         CMA      LOS

  1.   Chatsworth Street and Louise Avenue          0.791       C       0.628           B

  2.   Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard       0.852       D       0.924           E

  3.   Chatsworth Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue     0.711       C       0.555           A

  4.   San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard         0.493       A       0.574           A

  5.   Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue          0.790       C       0.672           B

  6.   Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard       1.040       F       0.152           F

  7.   Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue     0.941       E       0.840           D

  8.   Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard           1.011       F       0.899           D




                                            20
                                  PROJECT TRAFFIC

The following section describes the methodology used to determine the trip generation,

distribution, and assignment of the proposed project.

Traffic Generation

Traffic-generating characteristics of various land uses have been surveyed and

documented in many studies conducted under the auspices of the Institute of

Transportation Engineers (ITE). The June 24, 2005 Memorandum of Cooperation

(MOC) between LAUSD and LADOT, as well as the 7th Edition of the ITE Trip

Generation manual were used as the basis for calculating trips associated with the

project, and the adult night school student trip generation were estimated based on the

survey conducted by LAUSD. The daily, AM and PM peak hours trip rates and

equations used for determining the project's trip generation are shown in Table 4.

                                        Table 4
                            Project Trip Generation Rates

      High School ­ (per two semester seat)
           Daily:**           T = 1.71 (S)
           AM Peak Hour:* T = 0.48 (S); I/B = 0.26 (S), O/B = 0.22 (S)
           PM Peak Hour:** T = 0.14 (S); I/B = 47%, O/B = 53%
      Adult Night School *** ­ (per student)
                                   Walk/     Drop-Off/             Drive
                                   Transit   Pick-Up     Carpool   Alone    Total
             Percent:                28%          4%        18%      50%    100%
             Daily:                     0        0.16       0.18     1.00    1.34
             AM Peak Hour: In           0           0          0        0       0
                           Out          0           0          0        0       0
             PM Peak Hour: In           0        0.04       0.09     0.50    0.63
                           Out          0        0.04          0        0    0.04

      Hospital ­ (per bed)
           Daily:**              T = 7.42 (B) + 1733.31
           AM Peak Hour:**       T = 1.44 (B) ­ 149.79; I/B = 70%, O/B = 30%
           PM Peak Hour:**       T = 1.42 (B) ­ 54.39; I/B = 36%, O/B = 64%


                                             21
                                     Table 4 (cont.)
                                 Project Trip Generation Rates

       *     High School AM peak hour used rates from MOC.
       **    Trip Generation, 7th Edition, Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2003.
       ***   Travel Mode-Split from LAUSD Survey.

       S = student;
       B = bed;                                               I/B = Inbound trips;
       T = trip ends;                                         O/B = Outbound trips

Project traffic, based on the ITE trip rates, the MOC rates and adult night school trip

estimations described in Table 4, are shown in Table 5. The trip credit of the existing

201-bed hospital was taken in the calculation of the future project traffic volumes, in

conformance with the "Los Angeles Department of Transportation (LADOT) Traffic

Study Policies and Procedures, Revised March 2002" and approved Memorandum of

Understanding (Appendix D) for the project. As shown in this table, the proposed

project, once completed, would result in a net decrease in daily trips, and a net increase

of 443 trips during the AM peak hour and 241 trips during the PM peak hour.

                                          Table 5
                                      Trip Generation
                                                      AM Peak Hour         PM Peak Hour
Use                     Size           Daily         In   Out Total       In   Out Total
Proposed Uses
 High School        1,215 Students    2,078          316    267   583      80      90     170
 Adult School         450 Students     604             0      0     0     284      18     302
Less Existing Uses
 Hospital            201 Beds         (3,225)        (98)   (42) (140)    (83) (148) (231)
Net Site Generation                    (543)         218    225   443     281     (40) 241

Trip Distribution

Determination of the geographic distribution of generated trips was the next step in the

process. Regional directional distributions were based on the anticipated service area


                                                22
for the school. These regional distributions were used along with observed vehicular

turning movements to develop trip distribution percentages. The estimated directional

trip distributions for the project are shown in Table 6.


                                          Table 6
                                 Directional Trip Distribution
                      Direction                   Percentage of Trips
                         North                             25%
                         South                             25%
                         East                              25%
                         West                              25%
                                         Total:            100%

Trip Assignment

The assignment of project traffic to the street and highway systems was accomplished

in two steps. Using the directional distribution percentages for the project area

developed previously, the number of trips in each direction was calculated. The second

step was to assign these trips to specific routes within the study area, including surface

streets and freeways, using the percentages shown in Figure 5, which is signed and

approved by LADOT on September 15, 2005 and shown in Appendix D. Project traffic

volumes at the study intersections for the AM and PM peak hours, based on the trip

distribution percentages shown in Table 5 are shown in Figures 6(a) and 6(b),

respectively.

Project Site Access

Parking for the project would be provided in the multi-level parking structure located
adjacent to the south side of the project site. Though the structure contains a total of
361 spaces, only 113 of the spaces would be designated for use by the school. Access
to the parking structure would be provided via a driveway for both ingress and egress
traffic with right-turn-out along Balboa Boulevard at the southern boundary of the



                                             23
project. (Left-turn-out will not be allowed from this driveway due to safety concerns
involved with the high speeds and volumes on Balboa Boulevard, which is a Class II
major highway.) Access to the drop-off and loading zone would be provided via a right-
turn-in only driveway along Balboa Boulevard near the north end of the site. Egress
from the drop-off and loading zone would be provided by a right-turn-out only driveway
to Balboa Boulevard at the south end of the loading zone.

Parking Analysis

In addition to the intersection impact analysis, a parking analysis was also conducted to

determine the potential impacts of students parking in the adjacent areas to the

proposed project site. As currently purposed, parking for the project would be provided

in the multi-level parking structure. Though the structure contains a total of 361 spaces,

only 113 of the spaces would be designated for use by the school. The 113 parking

spaces is based on a ratio of 2.5 spaces per classroom for 45 classrooms. No student

parking would be provided on-site for high school students. The 113 space high school

parking structure will be open to the adult night school students, since the staff of the

high school will leave by the time of the adult night school starts. Therefore, any high

school students who choose to drive to school would need to find on-street parking.

Most of the adult night school students who choose to drive to school would need to find

on-street parking also because of the limited supply of parking spaces in the parking

structure.

Based on the parking generation data included in the Institute of Transportation

Engineers' Parking Generation, 3rd Edition, the estimated parking demand for the high

school was developed. It should be noted that although the parking generation data is

as a ratio to the number of students, the overall parking demand generated is for the

entire high school, which would include staff and visitors. As shown in the table below,

the total calculated parking demand for the high school students, staff and visitors is


                                             27
300 spaces. With 113 spaces in the parking structure for the school staff, there would

be a demand of 187 spaces on-street in order to meet the projected total high school

parking demand during the daytime. The total calculated parking demand for the adult

night school students and staff is 281 spaces. This includes 266 spaces for students

who, based on a LAUSD survey, will choose to drive alone and carpool plus 1 staff per

class for 15 night school classes, with 113 spaces in the parking structure, there would

be a demand of 168 spaces on-street in order to meet the projected adult night school

student parking demand.

                                        ITE         High School    Night School
 Land Use               Size     Parking Equation Parking Demand Parking Demand
 High School          1,215 st   P = 0.19 * S + 69              300
 Adult Night School     450 st                                                      281 *
 School On-Site Parking Spaces                                  113                 113
    Total Required On-Street Parking Spaces                     187                 168
 * The adult night school parking demand based on LAUSD survey.


In order to determine if there is adequate on-street parking available to support

anticipated demand created by the students, a parking survey of four time periods (8:00

AM, 12:00 PM, 2:30 PM and 7:00 PM) was conducted in October and November 2005.

The number of on-street parking spaces within a likely walking distance (approximately

one-quarter mile) to the proposed high school was estimated based on field survey.

Parking restrictions which would prevent long-term parking were also noted. Figure 7

summarizes the existing parking supply information. In the area surveyed, the on-street

parking supply consists of approximately 543 parking spaces (long term no parking and

no-stopping 7-9 AM signed parking spaces were not included). Street sweeping is

scheduled on Monday and Tuesday from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM, during this period the

parking supply consists of approximately 281 parking spaces.

Parking utilization counts for the parking spaces shown in Figure 7 were conducted to


                                            28
determine the number of available parking spaces in the area. These would be the
unused/unoccupied spaces which could be available for student parking. Four time
periods were assessed to determine the peak utilization for the existing on-street
spaces. Counts were conducted prior to 8:00 AM when students would be searching for
on-street parking spaces; prior to 12:00 PM when the midday peak parking demand for
other uses in the area occurred; prior to 2:30 PM which is before the end of the school
day; and prior to 7:00 PM when the adult night school peak parking demand occurred.
Figure 8 ­ 11 summarize the available number of on-street parking spaces, there are
approximately 328 on-street parking spaces available prior to 8:00 AM on all weekdays,
381 on-street parking spaces available prior to 12:00 PM on non-Monday and Tuesday
weekdays (due to Monday and Tuesday 10:00 AM ­ 12:00 PM Street Sweeping, only
85 on-street parking spaces available prior to 12:00 PM on Monday and Tuesday), 394
on-street parking spaces available prior to 2:30 PM on all weekdays and 345 on-street
parking spaces available prior to 7:00 PM on all weekdays. The school neighborhood
parking supply and future project on-street parking demand was calculated and listed in
Table 7.

Based on the parking survey of existing on-street parking during the four time periods,
the existing parking supply would not provide enough unutilized on-street parking to
meet the projected demand of 187 parking spaces prior to 12:00 PM on Monday and
Tuesday (only 85 on-street parking spaces were available) for the high school students,
but would provide enough unutilized on-street parking to meet the projected demand of
187 parking spaces at all other three time periods on Monday and Tuesday. The
available supply would also meet the demand during all four times periods on other
weekdays for the high school students, and 168 spaces for the adult night school
students on all weekdays. It should be noted, however, that the number of unutilized
on-street parking spaces which would be available for student parking is based on
existing parking demand in the area. The future parking demand (when the proposed
project opens) could be different which might affect the overall number of unutilized

                                           29
spaces in the future. However, based on the related projects list and the existing land
uses in the study area, the on-street parking demand would not be expected to change
dramatically during the time period surveyed.

As described above, there appears to be no adequate on-street public parking available
to satisfy the projected parking demand for the proposed high school. As potential
mitigation, the LAUSD could try to limit the number of students parking in the
neighborhood areas. The District could promote alternative transportation modes for
staff and students by providing notice to parents, students and staff of implications of
parking on nearby residential streets. The program should include a description of
restrictions and penalties; providing information on existing public transportation options;
and, to the degree possible, designating preferred on-site parking areas for staff
carpools and vanpools. This would help reduce the proposed project's parking demand
and the need to use on-street parking in the vicinity of the study area. Such a program
would also reduce trip generation and decrease impacts below those Future Traffic
Conditions section. To be conservative, no credit was taken for potential reductions in
the Mitigation Section of this report.

                                     Table 7
                       Neighborhood On-Street Parking Demand

                                   Monday & Tuesday
                            Existing         Future Project             Future
     Time of Day       Unoccupied Spaces     Added Demand           Remaining Supply
          8:00 AM                        328                 187                      141
         12:00 PM                         85                 187                     -102
          2:30 PM                        394                 187                      207
          7:00 PM                        345                 168                      177

                                     Other Weekdays
                            Existing          Future Project            Future
     Time of Day       Unoccupied Spaces      Added Demand          Remaining Supply
          8:00 AM                        328                 187                     141
         12:00 PM                        381                 187                     194
          2:30 PM                        394                 187                     207
          7:00 PM                        345                 168                     177

                                               30
                                   PEDESTRIAN SAFETY

This section summarizes the study of pedestrian safety performed for the proposed

project which was conducted in accordance to LAUSD's "methodologies for Preliminary

Traffic Reviews and Pedestrian Safety studies" and the Office of Environmental Health

and Safety (OEHS)'s "Traffic and Pedestrian Safety Requirements for New Schools".

Pedestrian Volume Calculations

Utilizing mode split characteristics of LAUSD schools, established by surveys conducted

for the LAUSD Program EIR (Meyer, Mohaddes Associates, Inc. ­ November, 2003);

the number of anticipated students who would walk or bike to and from the school site

was calculated. The Program EIR defines the following percentage breakdowns for

high school project mode splits:

       o Trips by car ­ 58% of total trips
       o Trips by school bus ­ 3% of total trips
       o Trips by public transportation ­ 16% of total trips
       o Trips by walk/bike ­ 22% of total trips
       o Trips by other means ­ 2% of total trips

The total proposed high school vehicle trip generation of 316 inbound AM peak period

trips and 80 inbound PM peak period trips were utilized to calculate pedestrian volumes

for the analysis. The pedestrian volumes of the proposed adult night school was

calculated in Table 4, which was then added on top of the high school PM inbound

pedestrian volumes to get the total PM peak hour pedestrian volumes of the proposed

project. For the project traffic study, outbound AM and PM peak vehicle volumes are

examined, representing returning drop-off trips, departing delivery trips, etc. For the

pedestrian analysis, it was assumed that no measurable outbound pedestrian volumes




                                             36
would be present in the AM and PM peak hours. Therefore, only inbound pedestrian

volumes were examined in this analysis.

The project vehicle trip generation (utilized for the traffic report) was normalized to a

100% mode split. The number was then factored to calculate the pedestrian volumes.

As shown in the calculation below, the total AM inbound pedestrian volumes, including

public transit passengers, is 307 and the total PM inbound pedestrian volumes is 294:

                                         AM Peak Hour                          PM Peak Hour
                                          High School        High School        Adult School        Site Total
Mode                                     Vehicle Ped *      Vehicle Ped *      Vehicle Ped *      Vehicle Ped *
Trips by Car
   (Including cars parking on-street)        314     100         80        0       284     168           364   168
Trips by School Bus                            2       0          0        0         0       0             0     0
Trips by Public Transit/Walk/Bike              0     207          0        0         0     126             0   126
Total                                        316     307         80        0       284     294           364   294
* Includes pedestrian to/from public transit stops along Balboa Boulevard and elsewhere, and on-street
   parking. The majority of the pedestrians entering the site will be from one of these two sources.


Existing Pedestrian-Oriented Traffic Controls

A survey of pedestrian facilities was conducted in the vicinity of the school. The survey

identified the locations of existing traffic controls in the area that could be used by

students to access the proposed project. Most of the street segments surveyed within a

reasonable walking distance from the project site (approximately one-quarter mile) have

paved sidewalks. The street segments with partial missing concrete pavements are

listed below:

    o      Genesta Avenue between Kingsbury Street and San Jose Street
    o      Southside of Kingsbury Street between Balboa Boulevard and Genesta
           Avenue
    o      Northside of San Jose Street west of Amestoy Avenue

The intersections surveyed are within a reasonable walking distance from the project

site (approximately one-quarter mile). Figure 12 shows existing pedestrian system in


                                                      37
the project vicinity, there are 3 signalized intersections where pedestrians could cross

under protected conditions. The intersections within a reasonable walking distance

(approximately one-quarter mile) from the project site are listed below:

    o    Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard (Signalized, Marked Crosswalks)

    o    Kingsbury Street and Genesta Avenue (One-way Stop, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    Kingsbury Street and Balboa Boulevard (Two-way Stop, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    Germain Street and Genesta Avenue (One-Way Stop, no Marked Crosswalks)
    o    Germain Street and Balboa Boulevard (Two-way Stop, no Marked Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and Amestoy Avenue (Four-way Stop, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and Genesta Avenue (Two-way Stop, no Marked Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard (Signalized, Marked Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and McLennan Avenue (Two-way Stop, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and Forbes Avenue (Two-way Stop, no Marked Crosswalks)
    o    San Jose Street and Petit Avenue (Four-way Stop, no Marked Crosswalks)
    o    Minnehaha Street and Genesta Avenue (no traffic control, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    Minnehaha Street and McLennan Avenue (no traffic control, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    Black Hawk Street and Balboa Boulevard (Two-way Stop, no Marked
         Crosswalks)
    o    Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard (Signalized, Marked Crosswalks)

Based on the existing pedestrian system, future pedestrian routes and mitigation

measures are recommended in the Mitigation Measures section.




                                            38
                             FUTURE TRAFFIC CONDITIONS

Other projects proposed for development in the area could add substantial amounts of

traffic to the major roadway facilities in the project vicinity. For this reason, the analysis of

future traffic conditions was expanded to include potential traffic from yet undeveloped or

unoccupied projects. Briefly, the methodology for estimating future traffic volumes was as

follows: First, current traffic volumes were determined by traffic counts (as described in a

preceding section). Next, an ambient traffic growth factor of 1.5 percent compounded

annually was applied to develop Year 2010 "baseline" figures. Traffic expected to be

generated from "related projects" was then added to the baseline traffic volumes to form

the basis for 2010 "Without Project" conditions. Finally, project traffic, calculated

previously, was analyzed as an incremental addition to the 2010 "Without Project"

conditions, to achieve the "With Project" scenario.

Traffic Growth

Based on an analysis of the trends in traffic growth in this portion of Los Angeles over the

last several years, an annual traffic growth factor of 1.5 percent for the area street system

was deemed reasonable. A growth factor was used to account for increases in traffic

resulting from projects not yet proposed or outside of the study area. This "growth factor",

compounded annually, was applied to the existing traffic volumes to develop the

estimated baseline volumes for the study year 2010.

Cumulative Development

In addition to the use of the above ambient growth rate, listings of potential projects

located in the study area ("related projects") that might be developed within the study time

frame were obtained from LADOT records. A total of 4 related projects were found within

a 1.5-mile radius from the project site. Development of these related projects could

produce additional traffic at the study intersections. Traffic expected to be generated by

                                              40
the related projects was estimated by applying the trip generation equations and rates in

Table 8 or using numbers from their approved traffic impact reports.

The locations of the related projects are illustrated in Figure 13, with their descriptions and

trip generations shown in Table 9. In order to estimate the potential "worst case" future

area traffic conditions, trip estimates for the related projects generally do not include pass-

by or internal trip reductions, because specifics of the operations of many of the projects

are unknown. To evaluate Year 2010 "Without Project" traffic conditions, the peak hour

trips estimated in Table 9 were assigned to the area circulation system, using methods

similar to those previously described for project traffic assignment. Related projects traffic

volumes are shown in Figures 14(a) and 14(b) for AM and PM peak hours, respectively.

The related projects traffic volumes were then combined with the growth-factored,

background traffic volumes described in the previous section, resulting in Year 2010

"Without Project" peak-hour traffic estimates, which is shown in Figures 15(a) and 15(b) for

AM and PM peak hours, respectively.

These estimates are the "benchmark" volumes used in determining project traffic impacts

on the street system. Actual future traffic volumes in the study area could be substantially

less than depicted in Figures 15(a) and 15(b) because the timing of the related projects'

completion (if at all) is speculative. However, they were included in this traffic analysis to

present the most conservative conditions reasonably expected to occur. Further, some of

the projects will be required to implement traffic reduction programs as conditions of their

development. Such reductions were not assumed. No discounts were taken for expected

trip linkages between future projects. Additionally, some of the projects identified may not

be built to the intensity described. Finally, as noted above, trip discounts were generally

not considered for related projects trip-reducing factors such as pass-by or internal trips.




                                             41
                                        Table 8
                 Related Projects Trip Generation Rates and Equations

Residential Condominium/Townhouse (per dwelling unit) - LU 230
         Daily:                 T = 5.86 (D)
         AM Peak Hour:          T = 0.44 (D); I/B = 17%, O/B = 83%
         PM Peak Hour:          T = 0.52 (D); I/B = 67%, O/B = 33%

High School (per 1,000 sf) - LU 530
         Daily:                 T = 1.71 (S)
         AM Peak Hour:          T = 0.41 (S); I/B = 69%, O/B = 31%
         PM Peak Hour:          T = 0.14 (S); I/B = 47%, O/B = 53%

Free-Standing Discount Store (per 1,000 sf) - LU 815
         Daily:                 T = 56.02 (A)
         AM Peak Hour:          T = 0.84 (A); I/B = 68%, O/B = 32%
         PM Peak Hour:          T = 5.06 (A); I/B = 50%, O/B = 50%

Shopping Center (per 1,000 sf) - LU 820
         Daily:                 LN (T) = 0.65 LN(A) + 5.83
         AM Peak Hour:          LN (T) = 0.60 LN(A) + 2.29; I/B = 61%, O/B = 39%
         PM Peak Hour:          LN (T) = 0.66 LN(A) + 3.40; I/B = 48%, O/B = 52%


where:
         T   = trip ends                         A = building area in 1,000's of square feet
         I/B = inbound                           D = dwelling unit
         O/B = outbound                          S = student

Sources:
           Trip Generation, 7th Edition, Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2003.




                                                    42
                                                            Table 9
                                Related Projects Locations, Descriptions, and Trip Generations


Map                                                                                            AM Peak Hour                PM Peak Hour
No. Address                            Size        Project Description           Daily       I/B     O/B     Total       I/B     O/B      Total
 1. 11254 Gothic Avenue                N/A        High School [1]                1,335       147     173     320          51      58      109
 2. 17055 San Fernando             34,557 sf      Target Expansion               1,936        20       9       29         88      87      175
    Mission Boulevard

 3. 9901 Zelzah Avenue                 217 du Townhome                           1,272        16      79       95         76      37      113
                                       405 du Condominium                        2,373        30     148     178         141      70      211
                                   42,700 sf      Shopping Center                3,906        57      37       94        171     186      357
                                                                                 7,551       103     264     367         388     293      681
 4. 9601 Zelzah Avenue                 888 st     Valley New High School [2]       796       302     177     479          58      66      124


Source:
 [1] AM trips from LADOT database; Daily trips calculated from AM peak hour trip multiply the ratio of Daily rate to AM peak hour rate.
 [2] Valley New High School No.1 Revised Section 3H Transportation/Traffic and Revised Traffic Impact Report (Appendix F) of the Draft
     Environmental Impact Report, Aspen Enviromental Group, December 2001.




                                                                      44
Highway System Improvements

A review of the City of Los Angeles planned improvements for the study area indicates

that many traffic control improvements have already been implemented at critical points

within the existing highway network serving the proposed development. For example,

parking restrictions are enforced along critical intersection approaches where

necessary. Left-turn channelizations are incorporated in the roadway geometrics

throughout this portion of the street system. These and other traffic control measures

are an indication of very good use of the existing highway facilities. For purposes of this

study, no change to the existing striping and traffic signal conditions were assumed for

the future year analyses.

The Automated Traffic Control System (ATCS) discussed in the mitigation section of

this report is a set of further enhancements to the Highway system in the area. It is

recommended that the project participate in the funding of this system (see the

Mitigation Measures section).

Analysis of Future Traffic Conditions (Without and With Project)

The analysis of future conditions in the project area was performed using the same

critical lane analysis procedures described previously in this report. Traffic volumes for

the analysis were developed as follows:

    o    As described earlier in the report, future year 2010 benchmark traffic volumes
         for the "Without Project" condition were determined by combining the area
         "ambient" traffic growth with traffic generated by the 4 identified related
         projects.

    o    Traffic volumes generated by the project, as determined earlier, were then
         added to the above benchmark volumes to determine traffic impacts directly
         attributable to the proposed development.


                                            49
Traffic volumes for the future (Year 2010) "With Project" conditions are shown in

Figures 16(a) and 16(b) for the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. The results of the

Critical Movement Analysis of future traffic conditions at the study intersections are

summarized in Table 10.

As stated previously, future travel demands will likely be less than those contained in

the analysis and reflected in these tables. Additionally, potential traffic mitigation

measures required of some of the related projects, which may improve the projected

Levels of Service conditions in the future, have not been assumed. Therefore, it is

probable that future conditions at the study intersections will be better than those

calculated for Table 10.

Project Intersection Impacts

The City of Los Angeles defines a significant traffic impact based on a "stepped scale",
with intersections at high volume-to-capacity ratios being more sensitive to additional
traffic than those operating with available surplus capacity. A significant impact is
identified as an increase in the CMA value of 0.010 or more, where the final ("With
Project") Level of Service is E or F; a CMA increase of 0.020 or more where the final
Level of Service is LOS D, or a CMA increase of 0.040 or more when the final Level of
Service is LOS C. No significant impacts are deemed to occur at LOS A or B, as these
operating conditions exhibit sufficient surplus capacities to accommodate large traffic
increases with little effect on traffic flows.

As shown in Table 10, the project would be anticipated to result in six potentially
significant project traffic-related intersection impacts. These potential significant traffic
impacts are located at the intersections of Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard,
San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard, Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue,
Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard, Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue,
Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard.


                                                 50
                                        Table 10
                      Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) Summary
               Future (2010) Traffic Conditions - Without and With Project

                                                Peak      Without Project      With Project
  No. Intersection                              Hour       CMA      LOS     CMA LOS Impact
   1.     Chatsworth Street and                   AM       0.861     D      0.878   D   0.017
          Louise Avenue                           PM       0.687     B      0.699   B   0.012

   2.     Chatsworth Street and                   AM       0.931     E      0.931   E   0.000
          Balboa Boulevard                        PM       1.016     F      1.026   F   0.010 *

   3.     Chatsworth Street and                   AM       0.781     C      0.793   C    0.012
          Hayvenhurst Avenue                      PM       0.607     B      0.604   B   -0.003

   4.     San Jose Street and                     AM       0.538     A      0.630   B   0.092
          Balboa Boulevard                        PM       0.629     B      0.743   C   0.114 *

   5.     Devonshire Street and                   AM       0.862     D      0.899   D   0.037 *
          Louise Avenue                           PM       0.735     C      0.750   C   0.015

   6.     Devonshire Street and                   AM       1.133     F      1.166   F    0.033 *
          Balboa Boulevard                        PM       1.260     F      1.250   F   -0.010
   7.     Devonshire Street and                   AM       1.031     F      1.059   F   0.028 *
          Hayvenhurst Avenue                      PM       0.917     E      0.928   E   0.011 *

   8.     Lassen Street and                       AM       1.142     F      1.152   F    0.010 *
          Balboa Boulevard                        PM       0.989     E      0.987   E   -0.002

  *     Indicates a significant impact, prior to mitigation.


Residential Street Traffic Impact Analysis

In addition to the analysis of project-related traffic impacts at the eight study

intersections, the potential increase of project-related traffic volumes on San Jose Street

west of the project site and Genesta Avenue south of San Jose Street have also been

analyzed for this traffic study.

Neighborhood residential street impacts are evaluated by LADOT based on average

daily traffic (ADT) along the street segment analyzed. For the purpose of this

calculation, "With Project" is defined as the future study year projected ADT, including

                                                     53
ambient and related project traffic growth plus project traffic. Incremental project-related

increases in the daily traffic of a residential street are determined to be significant based

upon the following LADOT criteria summarized in Table 11.

                                        Table 11
                      Residential Street Significant Impact Criteria
  Projected Average Daily Traffic                         Project-Related
     With Project (Final ADT)                             Increase in ADT

               0 to 999                          16 percent or more of final ADT
            1,000 or more                        12 percent or more of final ADT
            2,000 or more                        10 percent or more of final ADT
            3,000 or more                           8 percent or more of final ADT
         _________

         Source: LADOT Traffic Study Policies and Procedures, Revised May 2001.


As mentioned earlier in the report, 24-hour traffic counts were conducted in March 2005

and have been used to calculate the project-related traffic impacts on the following two

locations. These counts were growth-factored by one and a half percent per year with

the addition of related project volumes to reflect future (2010) daily traffic conditions.

Table 12 shows that according to the above criteria, the project will not significantly

impact the two street segments.

                                       Table 12
                       Residential Street Traffic Impact Analysis

                                   Existing                 Future (2010) ADT
                                    (2005)      Without     Project     With           %
      Street Segment                 ADT        Project     Traffic    Project       Project

 1. San Jose Street                  2,319       2,580          -84       2,496      negative
    west of project site
 2. Genesta Avenue                     435          480           0        480          0%
    south of San Jose Street



                                               54
Analysis of Future Freeway Conditions (With and Without Project)

To address the increasing public concern that traffic congestion was impacting the

quality of life and economic vitality of the State of California, the Congestion

Management Program (CMP) was enacted by Proposition 111. The intent of the CMP

is to provide the analytical basis for transportation decisions through the State

Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) process. A Countywide approach has

been established by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the Local CMP agency,

to implement the statutory requirements of the CMP. The Countywide approach

includes designating a highway network that includes all state highways and principal

arterials within the County and monitoring the network's Level of Service standards.

This monitoring of the CMP network is one of the responsibilities of local jurisdictions. If

level of service standards deteriorate, then local jurisdictions must prepare a deficiency

plan to be in conformance with the Countywide plan.

Furthermore, all development projects which are required to prepare an EIR are subject

to the Land Use Analysis program of the CMP. This requirement will provide decision-

makers with the project-specific traffic impacts created by large projects on the CMP

highway network. The traffic impact analysis (TIA) to be included in an EIR requires

that all freeway segments where the project adds 150 or more trips, in either direction,

during the peak hours be analyzed. An analysis is also required at all CMP

intersections where the project will add 50 or more trips during the peak hour. A review

of the project vicinity indicates that within four miles radius from the project site, there

are no CMP intersections, thus, no additional CMA analysis is required.

An examination was also made of the potential for project-related freeway impacts

within the project study area. Two key freeway segments in the project vicinity were

identified. These locations, listed below, were selected as those freeway segments

closest to the project site, where new project traffic additions will be at their highest:

                                              55
   Ronald Reagan Freeway (SR-118):
   o East of Woodley Avenue

   San Diego Freeway (I-405):
   o North of Roscoe Boulevard

As shown previously in Figures 6(a) and 6(b), the project results in less than 150

directional vehicles per hour during both the AM and PM peak hours for freeway

segments and, therefore, no CMP analysis is required.




                                           56
                                MITIGATION MEASURES

Eight intersections were analyzed in this study. The proposed project is anticipated to
have potentially significant traffic impacts at six of eight intersections ­ Chatsworth
Street and Balboa Boulevard, San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard, Devonshire
Street and Louise Avenue, Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard, Devonshire Street
and Hayvenhurst Avenue, Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard.

Future parking demand, parking supply and on-street parking capacity were analyzed in
this study. The proposed project will not provide enough on-site parking, and the
neighborhood on-street parking capacity will not satisfy the future project parking
demand at all times.

Existing pedestrian-oriented traffic controls and future pedestrian volumes were
analyzed in this study. The existing pedestrian-oriented traffic controls will not satisfy
the future pedestrian safety requirement.

Traffic Impact Mitigation Measures

In order to reduce the project traffic impacts to less than a level of significance, these
intersections were closely examined to determine if any feasible improvements were
available. The following mitigation measures are recommended:

   Chatsworth Street and Balboa Boulevard - The recommended mitigation measure at
   this intersection includes restriping the Chatsworth Street westbound and eastbound
   intersection approaches, to provide a second left-turn-only lane to the eastbound
   approach. This improvement would change the existing eastbound approach from
   one left-turn-only lane, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane to two left-
   turn-only lanes, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane. This measure was
   selected as it will have limited secondary impacts but will mitigate the project traffic
   impact at this intersection to less than a significant level. A conceptual mitigation
   plan is provided as Appendix E-1.

   San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard - The recommended mitigation measure at
   this intersection includes restriping the San Jose Street eastbound intersection

                                             57
approach, to provide one left/through shared lane and one right-turn-only lane to the
eastbound approach. This improvement would change the existing eastbound
approach from one left/through/right shared lane to one left/through shared lane and
one right-turn-only lane. This measure was selected as it will have limited
secondary impacts but will mitigate the project traffic impact at this intersection to
less than a significant level. A conceptual mitigation plan is provided as Appendix E-
2.

Devonshire Street and Louise Avenue - Contribute to the installation of the City of
Los Angeles' Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) for traffic signal control. This
traffic signal coordination system monitors traffic demands throughout the network
on which it is installed, and adjusts traffic signal timing and coordination in real time
to maximize capacity and decrease delay. This measure will mitigate the project's
traffic impact to less than significance at this intersection.

Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard ­ No applicable mitigation measures have
been identified that would not require the widening of the roadway. Therefore, the
project traffic impact at this intersection would remain as significant and unavoidable.

Devonshire Street and Hayvenhurst Avenue - The recommended mitigation
measure at this intersection includes restriping the Devonshire Street westbound
intersection approach, to add one additional westbound through travel lane to the
west leg of the intersection. This improvement will extend the existing three
westbound travel lanes at the intersection of Devonshire Street and Balboa
Boulevard. This improvement would change the existing westbound approach from
one left-turn-only lane, two through lanes and one right-turn-only lane to one left-
turn-only lane, two through lanes and one through/right shared lane. This measure
was selected as it will have limited secondary impacts but will mitigate the project
traffic impact at this intersection to less than a significant level. A conceptual
mitigation plan is provided as Appendix E-3.




                                          58
     Lassen Street and Balboa Boulevard - Contribute to the installation of the City of Los
     Angeles' Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) for traffic signal control. This will
     mitigate the project's traffic impact to less than significance at this intersection.

The results of the implementation of the above mitigation measures are summarized in
Table 13 below. As shown in this table, implementation of the mitigation measures
identified above would reduce 5 of the 6 project traffic impacts to less than significant
levels. The project traffic impact at the intersection of Devonshire Street and Balboa
Boulevard would remain as significant and unavoidable.

                                         Table 13
                       Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) Summary
              Future (2010) Traffic Conditions - Without and With Mitigation
                                                    Future (2010) Conditions
                                           Without                         With Project
                                      Peak Project   With Project         Plus Mitigation
 No. Intersection                     Hour CMA LOS CMA LOS Impact       CMA LOS Impact

 2.     Chatsworth Street and          AM      0.931     E        0.931   E   0.000      0.862   D   -0.069
        Balboa Boulevard               PM      1.016     F        1.026   F   0.010 *    0.933   E   -0.083
 4.     San Jose Street and            AM      0.538     A        0.630   B   0.092      0.601   B   0.063
        Balboa Boulevard               PM      0.629     B        0.743   C   0.114 *    0.673   B   0.044
 5.     Devonshire Street and          AM      0.862     D        0.899   D   0.037 *    0.799   C   -0.063
        Louise Avenue                  PM      0.735     C        0.750   C   0.015      0.650   B   -0.085
 6.     Devonshire Street and          AM      1.133     F        1.166   F    0.033 *   1.166   F    0.033 *
        Balboa Boulevard               PM      1.260     F        1.250   F   -0.010     1.250   F   -0.010
 7.     Devonshire Street and          AM      1.031     F        1.059   F   0.028 *    0.931   E   -0.100
        Hayvenhurst Avenue             PM      0.917     E        0.928   E   0.011 *    0.915   E   -0.002
 8.     Lassen Street and              AM      1.142     F        1.152   F    0.010 *   1.052   F   -0.090
        Balboa Boulevard               PM      0.989     E        0.987   E   -0.002     0.887   D   -0.102
 *    Indicates a significant impact, prior to mitigation.




                                                             59
Parking Impact Mitigation Measures

The project will create student parking demand in excess of the available supply.

Therefore, a program to reduce demand is recommended. This Transportation Demand

Management (TDM) program should include measures such as public transit

information, carpool matching and encouragement to use non-vehicular modes (e.g.

walking and bicycling).

Recommended Pedestrian Routes and Mitigation Measures

Based on the existing pedestrian system, recommended pedestrian routes are shown in

Figure 17. The routes focus on providing access to the site via crosswalks at signalized

intersections and avoiding unsignalized/unmarked intersections and mid-block crossing.

All recommended pedestrian routes would have paved concrete sidewalks. In addition

to the recommended pedestrian routes, the following pedestrian safety mitigation

measures are recommended:

      Provide striped yellow crosswalks on the following intersections:
      o Germain Street and Balboa Boulevard (West Leg Only)
      o San Jose Street and Genesta Avenue (North Leg, South Leg and East Leg)
      o San Jose Street and McLennan Avenue (South Leg Only)
      o San Jose Street and Forbes Avenue (North Leg Only)

      Change the following crosswalks to yellow (school) markings:
      o San Jose Street and Balboa Boulevard
      o Devonshire Street and Balboa Boulevard

      Install Stop Control at the following intersection:
      o Install One-Way Stop on west leg of Minnehaha Street at Genesta Avenue

      Post School Speed Limit Sign on all school zone approaches
      o Along Balboa Boulevard

                                            60
        o Along San Jose Street

        Sidewalk Gap Closure
        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on Genesta
          Avenue between San Jose Street and Kingsbury Street
        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on Kingsbury
          Street between Balboa Boulevard and Genesta Avenue
        o Construct missing sidewalk segments in public right-of-way on San Jose
          Street west of Amestoy Avenue

These yellow crosswalks recommended above are within 600 feet of the school, as

required for yellow markings by vehicle code section 21368.2




2
 In unusual circumstances, which do not apply in this case, the vehicle code allows a 2800 foot limit to
be used.

                                                    61
           APPENDIX A
MANUAL STUDY INTERSECTION COUNTS
                                                  TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                             City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                                 Department of Transportation
North/South           LOUISE AVENUE

East/West             CHATSWORTH STREET

Day:     AM    WEDNESDAY              Date:       DECEMBER 1, 2004             Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    WEDNESDAY                          DECEMBER 1, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:           YES             District:           LOS ANGELES


                        N/B                         S/B                          E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BIKES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BUSES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A


                        N/B TIME                    S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                     W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                97 7:45                 143 7:45                     306 7:30                     355     7:45

PM PK 15 MIN            117 5:00                     44 5:00                     343 5:15                     205     4:15

AM PK HOUR              316 7:30                    492 7:15                     993 7:15                    1,206    7:15

PM PK HOUR              409 4:45                    150 4:15                    1,284 4:45                    775     4:15



NORTHBOUND Approach                                       SOUTHBOUND Approach                                        TOTAL      XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt      Th        Rt       Total             N-S       Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8              40     127     99        266             7-8             18     303      115          436             702     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
8-9              30     124     79        233             8-9             38     252       90          380             613     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
4-5              37     191     96        324             4-5             23      54       71          148             472     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
5-6              21     257    116        394             5-6             18      64       55          137             531     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
TOTAL           128     699    390      1,217             TOTAL           97     673      331        1,101           2,318     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                        WESTBOUND Approach                                         TOTAL      XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total             E-W       Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8              95      796    40        931             7-8            120      939      21        1,080           2,011     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
8-9              48      649    28        725             8-9             80      733      27          840           1,565     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
4-5             115      927    28      1,070             4-5             45      651      51          747           1,817     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
5-6              98    1,133    18      1,249             5-6             35      673      36          744           1,993     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
TOTAL           356    3,505   114      3,975             TOTAL          280    2,996     135        3,411           7,386     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
                                                  TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                            City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                               Department of Transportation
North/South            BALBOA BOULEVARD

East/West              CHATSWORTH STREET

Day:     AM    THURSDAY               Date:       DECEMBER 2, 2004             Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    THURSDAY                           DECEMBER 2, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:            YES            District:           LOS ANGELES


                         N/B                        S/B                          E/B                         W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                  N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A
BIKES                    N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A
BUSES                    N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A


                         N/B TIME                   S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                    W/B    TIME

AM PK 15 MIN             445 8:15                   367 8:00                     330 8:15                    162     7:15

PM PK 15 MIN             288 5:15                   551 5:15                     313 4:45                    292     4:45

AM PK HOUR              1,680 8:00                 1,406 7:45                   1,299 7:45                   608     7:00

PM PK HOUR               979 4:30                  1,918 4:45                   1,057 4:15                   886     4:15



NORTHBOUND Approach                                       SOUTHBOUND Approach                                      TOTAL       XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt      Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total            N-S       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              92     1,354    89     1,535             7-8             59      989     233        1,281          2,816     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9             109     1,454   117     1,680             8-9             65    1,041     252        1,358          3,038     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              48       642    67       757             4-5             78    1,400     230        1,708          2,465     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              61       837    46       944             5-6             64    1,524     207        1,795          2,739     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           310     4,287   319     4,916             TOTAL          266    4,954     922        6,142         11,058     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                        WESTBOUND Approach                                       TOTAL       XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours            Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total            E-W       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              342      606   125     1,073             7-8             93      433      82          608          1,681     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              379      731   121     1,231             8-9            102      338      88          528          1,759     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              266      604    96       966             4-5            132      633      45          810          1,776     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              239      393   107       739             5-6            115      386      54          555          1,294     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL          1,226    2,334   449     4,009             TOTAL          442    1,790     269        2,501          6,510     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
                                                 TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                          City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                              Department of Transportation
North/South           HAYVENHURST AVENUE

East/West             CHATSWORTH STREET

Day:     AM    THURSDAY              Date:       DECEMBER 2, 2004             Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    THURSDAY                          DECEMBER 2, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:           YES            District:           LOS ANGELES


                        N/B                        S/B                          E/B                         W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A
BIKES                   N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A
BUSES                   N/A                        N/A                          N/A                         N/A


                        N/B TIME                   S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                    W/B    TIME

AM PK 15 MIN            228 7:45                   333 7:45                     251 7:30                    331    7:45

PM PK 15 MIN            198 5:15                   158 5:15                     243 5:30                    153    4:45

AM PK HOUR              668 7:00                  1,018 7:15                    838 7:15                    922    7:15

PM PK HOUR              775 4:45                   608 4:45                     947 5:00                    541    4:30



NORTHBOUND Approach                                      SOUTHBOUND Approach                                      TOTAL      XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total           N-S       Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8              47      537    84       668             7-8             72      820     125        1,017         1,685     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
8-9              42      260    26       328             8-9             40      533     106          679         1,007     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
4-5              64      550    71       685             4-5             35      404     127          566         1,251     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
5-6              70      611    87       768             5-6             34      398     146          578         1,346     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
TOTAL           223    1,958   268     2,449             TOTAL          181    2,155     504        2,840         5,289     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                       WESTBOUND Approach                                       TOTAL      XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total           E-W       Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8             123      621    63       807             7-8            121      616     120          857         1,664     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
8-9             106      338    62       506             8-9             54      379      32          465           971     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
4-5             140      584    57       781             4-5             56      420      62          538         1,319     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
5-6             190      698    59       947             5-6             59      400      48          507         1,454     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
TOTAL           559    2,241   241     3,041             TOTAL          290    1,815     262        2,367         5,408     N/A   N/A      N/A   N/A
                                     TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY

STREET:                                                                                                     Department of Transportation
North/South       BALBOA BL                                                                                            (Rev Apr 92)

East/West         SAN JOSE ST

Day:    MONDAY                       Date:    SEP 13, 2004            Weather:          CLEAR

Hours:     7-10 AM       3-6 PM

School Day:       YES                District:         WEST VALLEY        I/S CODE      0497065990


                        N/B                      S/B                     E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 75                       66                       8                           11
BIKES                    5                        3                       5                            2
BUSES                   20                       15                       0                            0


                        N/B   TIME               S/B     TIME            E/B     TIME                 W/B      TIME

AM PK 15 MIN         312      9.15               421    7.15             51      7.30                 65      7.30

PM PK 15 MIN         567      4.15               315    3.15             63      3.00                 37      3.00

AM PK HOUR           980      9.00             1516     7.00            140      7.00                 146     7.00

PM PK HOUR         2024       3.45             1183     3.15            209      3.00                 92      4.30



NORTHBOUND Approach                                    SOUTHBOUND Approach                                  TOTAL     XING S/L    XING N/L

Hours     Lt        Th        Rt     Total             Hours    Lt      Th       Rt  Total                    N-S     Ped   Sch   Ped      Sch
7-8        37       727        17       781            7-8       11    1437       68     1516                 2297     2     2     6        0
8-9        28       466          9      503            8-9       18    1303       49     1370                 1873     2     0     7        0
9-10       21       954          5      980            9-10       6    1088       41     1135                 2115     2     0     1        0
3-4        58      1811        32      1901            3-4       28    1061       92     1181                 3082     1    23     6        5
4-5        49      1906        37      1992            4-5       41    1034       74     1149                 3141     1     0     2        0
5-6        16      1633        25      1674            5-6       37    1019       36     1092                 2766     1     0    13        0

TOTAL       209    7497       125      7831            TOTAL    141    6942      360        7443             15274     9    25    35         5


EASTBOUND Approach                                     WESTBOUND Approach                                   TOTAL     XING W/L    XING E/L

Hours     Lt         Th       Rt     Total             Hours    Lt      Th       Rt  Total                    E-W     Ped   Sch   Ped      Sch
7-8        55         43       42       140            7-8       29      84       33       146                 286     8     0     7        4
8-9        29           6      38        73            8-9       19      17       20        56                 129     4     0     4        0
9-10       18           0      17        35            9-10      17      12       17        46                  81     1     0     4        0
3-4        84         59       66       209            3-4       17      30       41        88                 297     7     5     1        3
4-5        69         21       54       144            4-5       15      16       44        75                 219    11     3     1        0
5-6        51         15       33        99            5-6       17      17       49        83                 182     4     0     5        0

TOTAL       306      144      250       700            TOTAL    114     176      204            494           1194    35    8     22         7
                                                  TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                              City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                                 Department of Transportation
North/South           LOUISE AVENUE

East/West             DEVONSHIRE STREET

Day:     AM    THURSDAY               Date:       DECEMBER 02, 2004            Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    THURSDAY                           DECEMBER 02, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:           YES             District:           LOS ANGELES


                        N/B                         S/B                          E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BIKES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BUSES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A


                        N/B TIME                    S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                     W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN            117 7:45                    214 7:45                     345 7:30                     457      7:15

PM PK 15 MIN            102 5:15                     76 4:00                     415 5:15                     301      5:30

AM PK HOUR              376 7:15                    650 7:15                    1,203 7:15                   1,742     7:15

PM PK HOUR              374 4:45                    233 4:00                    1,508 4:45                   1,164     4:45



NORTHBOUND Approach                                       SOUTHBOUND Approach                                        TOTAL       XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt      Th        Rt       Total              N-S       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              68     180     85        333             7-8            117     336      126          579              912     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              54     107     84        245             8-9             58     193       61          312              557     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              35     212     69        316             4-5             61     125       47          233              549     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              60     230     81        371             5-6             55      95       36          186              557     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           217     729    319      1,265             TOTAL          291     749      270        1,310            2,575     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                        WESTBOUND Approach                                         TOTAL       XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              E-W       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              33    1,005    88      1,126             7-8            137    1,442      59        1,638            2,764     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              25      793    46        864             8-9            109    1,264      28        1,401            2,265     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              64    1,311    38      1,413             4-5             47      978      49        1,074            2,487     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              52    1,361    76      1,489             5-6             49    1,038      72        1,159            2,648     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           174    4,470   248      4,892             TOTAL          342    4,722     208        5,272           10,164     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
                                                  TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                              City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                                 Department of Transportation
North/South            BALBOA BOULEVARD

East/West              DEVONSHIRE STREET

Day:     AM    WEDNESDAY              Date:       DECEMBER 01, 2004            Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    WEDNESDAY                          DECEMBER 01, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:            YES            District:           LOS ANGELES


                         N/B                        S/B                          E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                  N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BIKES                    N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BUSES                    N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A


                         N/B TIME                   S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                     W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN             349 7:45                   459 8:00                     384 7:45                     433      7:30

PM PK 15 MIN             529 4:30                   345 4:30                     512 4:00                     317      5:15

AM PK HOUR              1,294 7:30                 1,688 7:45                   1,348 7:30                   1,636     7:30

PM PK HOUR              1,957 4:15                 1,258 4:15                   1,919 4:45                   1,154     4:30



NORTHBOUND Approach                                       SOUTHBOUND Approach                                        TOTAL       XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt      Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              N-S       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8             148       795   110     1,053             7-8            108    1,253     190        1,551            2,604     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9             152       936   110     1,198             8-9            137    1,294     217        1,648            2,846     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5             282     1,472   149     1,903             4-5            200      873     131        1,204            3,107     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6             215     1,463   128     1,806             5-6            180      875      49        1,104            2,910     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           797     4,666   497     5,960             TOTAL          625    4,295     587        5,507           11,467     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                        WESTBOUND Approach                                         TOTAL       XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours            Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              E-W       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              228      877   103     1,208             7-8            246    1,188      90        1,524            2,732     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              231      793   104     1,128             8-9            198      965     110        1,273            2,401     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              470    1,103   137     1,710             4-5            171      802     162        1,135            2,845     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              545    1,198   140     1,883             5-6            151      789     182        1,122            3,005     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL          1,474    3,971   484     5,929             TOTAL          766    3,744     544        5,054           10,983     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
                                                 TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                             City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                                Department of Transportation
North/South           HAYVENHURST AVENUE

East/West             DEVONSHIRE STREET

Day:     AM    THURSDAY              Date:       DECEMBER 02, 2004            Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    THURSDAY                          DECEMBER 02, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:           YES            District:           LOS ANGELES


                        N/B                        S/B                          E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BIKES                   N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BUSES                   N/A                        N/A                          N/A                          N/A


                        N/B TIME                   S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                     W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN            146 7:30                   270 7:45                     365 7:30                     492      7:45

PM PK 15 MIN            277 5:45                   173 5:45                     416 5:15                     351      5:45

AM PK HOUR              526 7:15                   996 7:15                    1,326 7:15                   1,853     7:15

PM PK HOUR              882 5:00                   576 5:00                    1,584 4:30                   1,295     5:00



NORTHBOUND Approach                                      SOUTHBOUND Approach                                        TOTAL       XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              N-S       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              44      371    66       481             7-8             86      684     114          884            1,365     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              48      245    75       368             8-9             86      583     117          786            1,154     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5              80      538   112       730             4-5             73      312     139          524            1,254     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6              96      688    98       882             5-6             94      358     124          576            1,458     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           268    1,842   351     2,461             TOTAL          339    1,937     494        2,770            5,231     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                       WESTBOUND Approach                                         TOTAL       XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt    Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              E-W       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              84    1,072    73     1,229             7-8            166    1,534      69        1,769            2,998     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9              67      840    61       968             8-9            126    1,288      55        1,469            2,437     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5             165    1,275    64     1,504             4-5             75      927      91        1,093            2,597     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6             194    1,317    58     1,569             5-6             78    1,123      94        1,295            2,864     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           510    4,504   256     5,270             TOTAL          445    4,872     309        5,626           10,896     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
                                                  TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                              City of Los Angeles
STREET:                                                                                                                 Department of Transportation
North/South           BALBOA BOULEVARD

East/West             LASSEN STREET

Day:     AM    WEDNESDAY              Date:       DECEMBER 01, 2004            Weather:         CLEAR
         PM    WEDNESDAY                          DECEMBER 01, 2004
Hours:         7-9 AM 4-6 PM

School Day:           YES             District:           LOS ANGELES


                        N/B                         S/B                          E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                 N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BIKES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A
BUSES                   N/A                         N/A                          N/A                          N/A


                        N/B TIME                    S/B TIME                     E/B TIME                     W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN            316 8:00                    466 8:00                     390 7:30                     401      7:30

PM PK 15 MIN            436 4:30                    312 5:00                     384 5:00                     242      4:30

AM PK HOUR             1,154 7:30                  1,795 7:30                   1,411 7:15                   1,494     7:15

PM PK HOUR             1,626 4:00                  1,120 4:15                   1,411 4:30                    875      4:30



NORTHBOUND Approach                                       SOUTHBOUND Approach                                        TOTAL       XING S/L      XING N/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              N-S       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8              89      788    70        947             7-8             67    1,505     126        1,698            2,645     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9             105      863    62      1,030             8-9             71    1,385     159        1,615            2,645     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5             117    1,378   131      1,626             4-5             85      874     103        1,062            2,688     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6             128    1,243    80      1,451             5-6            115      846      64        1,025            2,476     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           439    4,272   343      5,054             TOTAL          338    4,610     452        5,400           10,454     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A


EASTBOUND Approach                                        WESTBOUND Approach                                         TOTAL       XING W/L      XING E/L

Hours           Lt     Th      Rt     Total               Hours         Lt       Th       Rt       Total              E-W       Ped   Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8             135    1,084   115      1,334             7-8            116    1,247      67        1,430            2,764     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
8-9             145      620   113        878             8-9            104      760      58          922            1,800     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
4-5             150    1,035    97      1,282             4-5            107      665      82          854            2,136     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
5-6             194    1,053    60      1,307             5-6             76      656      95          827            2,134     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
TOTAL           624    3,792   385      4,801             TOTAL          403    3,328     302        4,033            8,834     N/A   N/A     N/A   N/A
                                                                                                                                   Crain & Associates
                                                                                                                            2007 Sawtelle Blvd., Suite 4
                                                                                                                               Los Angeles, CA 90025
                                                                                                                                   Tel: (310) 473-6508


VEHICLE TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                              LOUISE AVENUE
N/S STREET: LOUISE AVENUE                           E/W STREET: CHATSWORTH STREET
PERIOD:       AM PEAK HOUR                          DATE: WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 1, 2004                         125      340        27
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND        EASTBOUND            NORTHBOUND       SOUTHBOUND                                                              N
   TOTALS          L     T    R    L     T      R        L     T    R     L    T        R   TOTAL
  7:00 - 7:15     12   162    3   11   144      6        6    14   10     3   40       20     431
  7:15 - 7:30     23   251    1   24   207      8        5    26   21     3   74       35     678




                                                                                                                                                       CHATSWORTH STREET
  7:30 - 7:45     41   224    8   35   253     18       13    39   35     2   84       32     784
  7:45 - 8:00     44   302    9   25   192      8       16    48   33    10  105       28     820     97                                        24
  8:00 - 8:15     24   273    6   13   201      9       10    36   23    12   77       30     714
  8:15 - 8:30     20   194   10   14   173      7        9    35   19    11   70       24     586                  AM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                      853                                      1050
  8:30 - 8:45     17   127    5   11   144      6        6    29   17     7   55       19     443
  8:45 - 9:00     19   139    6   10   131      6        5    24   20     8   50       17     435                  7:15 - 8:15
                                                                                                      43                                       132
  1-HOUR        WESTBOUND         EASTBOUND           NORTHBOUND        SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS         L     T      R    L     T      R       L    T     R      L    T     R      TOTAL
 7:00 - 8:00   120   939     21   95   796     40      40  127    99     18  303   115      2,713
 7:15 - 8:15   132 1,050     24   97   853     43      44  149   112     27  340   125      2,996 *
 7:30 - 8:30   129   993     33   87   819     42      48  158   110     35  336   114      2,904
 7:45 - 8:45   105   896     30   63   710     30      41  148    92     40  307   101      2,563
 8:00 - 9:00    80   733     27   48   649     28      30  124    79     38  252    90      2,178            44       149        112

                                                                                                              LOUISE AVENUE

PERIOD:       PM PEAK HOUR                          DATE: WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 1, 2004                         57        67        19
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND        EASTBOUND            NORTHBOUND      SOUTHBOUND
   TOTALS          L     T    R    L     T      R        L    T    R    L     T         R   TOTAL
  4:00 - 4:15     11   147   11   28   204     11        7   30   19    6    19        17     510
  4:15 - 4:30     13   174   18   31   222      8       14   52   21    8    10        21     592




                                                                                                                                                       CHATSWORTH STREET
  4:30 - 4:45     10   177   13   26   224      4        9   54   26    5    11        19     578
  4:45 - 5:00     11   153    9   30   277      5        7   55   30    4    14        14     609     107                                       34
  5:00 - 5:15      9   181    7   29   300      3        7   73   37    6    20        18     690
  5:15 - 5:30      7   175    8   27   312      4        6   70   33    4    19        15     680                  PM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                      1160                                     675
  5:30 - 5:45      9   166   10   21   271      5        4   63   24    5    14        10     602
  5:45 - 6:00     10   151   11   21   250      6        4   51   22    3    11        12     552                  4:45 - 5:45
                                                                                                      17                                        36
  1-HOUR       WESTBOUND           EASTBOUND          NORTHBOUND        SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS        L     T       R     L     T     R       L    T     R      L    T        R   TOTAL
 4:00 - 5:00   45   651      51   115   927    28      37  191    96     23   54       71   2,289
 4:15 - 5:15   43   685      47   116 1,023    20      37  234   114     23   55       72   2,469
 4:30 - 5:30   37   686      37   112 1,113    16      29  252   126     19   64       66   2,557
 4:45 - 5:45   36   675      34   107 1,160    17      24  261   124     19   67       57   2,581 *
 5:00 - 6:00   35   673      36    98 1,133    18      21  257   116     18   64       55   2,524            24       261        124
                                                                                                                                          Crain & Associates
                                                                                                                                   2007 Sawtelle Blvd., Suite 4
                                                                                                                                      Los Angeles, CA 90025
                                                                                                                                          Tel: (310) 473-6508


VEHICLE TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                   BALBOA BOULEVARD
N/S STREET: BALBOA BOULEVARD                         E/W STREET: CHATSWORTH STREET
PERIOD:       AM PEAK HOUR                           DATE: THURSDAY    DECEMBER 2, 2004                            256     1,080       70
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND         EASTBOUND            NORTHBOUND        SOUTHBOUND                                                                   N
   TOTALS          L     T  R       L     T      R        L     T    R      L    T             R   TOTAL
  7:00 - 7:15     21    99 24      74   126     29       21   321   20     12  262            54   1,063
  7:15 - 7:30     17   127 18      78   150     34       21   337   21     12  217            63   1,095




                                                                                                                                                              CHATSWORTH STREET
  7:30 - 7:45     23   110 24      85   144     29       28   371   29     18  241            60   1,162
  7:45 - 8:00     32    97 16     105   186     33       22   325   19     17  269            56   1,177     407                                       83
  8:00 - 8:15     30    11 25     101   192     35       30   362   32     20  280            67   1,185
  8:15 - 8:30     28   110 22      97   201     32       31   380   34     17  266            63   1,281                 AM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                             762                                      316
  8:30 - 8:45     23    98 20     104   183     30       27   379   30     16  265            70   1,245
  8:45 - 9:00     21   119 21      77   155     24       21   333   21     12  230            52   1,086                 7:45 - 8:45
                                                                                                             130                                      113
  1-HOUR        WESTBOUND          EASTBOUND           NORTHBOUND             SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS         L     T      R     L     T      R       L     T    R           L     T    R       TOTAL
 7:00 - 8:00    93   433     82   342   606    125      92 1,354   89          59   989  233       4,497
 7:15 - 8:15   102   345     83   369   672    131     101 1,395  101          67 1,007  246       4,619
 7:30 - 8:30   113   328     87   388   723    129     111 1,438  114          72 1,056  246       4,805
 7:45 - 8:45   113   316     83   407   762    130     110 1,446  115          70 1,080  256       4,888 *
 8:00 - 9:00   102   338     88   379   731    121     109 1,454  117          65 1,041  252       4,797           110     1,446       115

                                                                                                                   BALBOA BOULEVARD

PERIOD:       PM PEAK HOUR                           DATE: THURSDAY        DECEMBER 2, 2004                        242     1,583       80
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND        EASTBOUND             NORTHBOUND            SOUTHBOUND
   TOTALS          L     T    R    L     T       R        L    T       R        L    T         R   TOTAL
  4:00 - 4:15     16    76    9   58    60      19        5  111      14       15  310        50     743
  4:15 - 4:30     32   130   11   61   144      21        9  121      17       18  369        54     987




                                                                                                                                                              CHATSWORTH STREET
  4:30 - 4:45     40   194   10   70   193      27       13  188      21       20  311        66   1,153
  4:45 - 5:00     44   233   15   77   207      29       21  222      15       25  410        60   1,358     270                                       53
  5:00 - 5:15     42   123   12   75   126      27       10  192       9       12  402        48   1,078
  5:15 - 5:30     33   105   16   48   112      31       19  255      14       23  460        68   1,184                 PM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                             638                                      655
  5:30 - 5:45     22    76   17   54    85      27       14  188       7       14  352        44     900
  5:45 - 6:00     18    82    9   62    70      22       18  202      16       15  310        47     871                 4:30 - 5:30
                                                                                                             114                                      159
  1-HOUR        WESTBOUND          EASTBOUND           NORTHBOUND             SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS         L     T      R     L     T      R       L    T        R        L     T    R       TOTAL
 4:00 - 5:00   132   633     45   266   604     96      48  642       67       78 1,400  230       4,241
 4:15 - 5:15   158   680     48   283   670    104      53  723       62       75 1,492  228       4,576
 4:30 - 5:30   159   655     53   270   638    114      63  857       59       80 1,583  242       4,773 *
 4:45 - 5:45   141   537     60   254   530    114      64  857       45       74 1,624  220       4,520
 5:00 - 6:00   115   386     54   239   393    107      61  837       46       64 1,524  207       4,033            63      857        59
                                                                                                                                         Crain & Associates
                                                                                                                                  2007 Sawtelle Blvd., Suite 4
                                                                                                                                     Los Angeles, CA 90025
                                                                                                                                         Tel: (310) 473-6508


VEHICLE TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY
                                                                                                                  HAYVENHURST AVENUE
N/S STREET: HAYVENHURST AVENUE                      E/W STREET: CHATSWORTH STREET
PERIOD:       AM PEAK HOUR                          DATE: THURSDAY    DECEMBER 2, 2004                             142      801        75
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND        EASTBOUND            NORTHBOUND        SOUTHBOUND                                                                   N
   TOTALS          L     T  R      L     T      R        L     T    R      L    T             R   TOTAL
  7:00 - 7:15     13    74 10     24    90     10        7    96   12     11  177            10     534
  7:15 - 7:30     20   135 15     32   135     15       10    95   18     13  191            16     695




                                                                                                                                                             CHATSWORTH STREET
  7:30 - 7:45     41   178 40     33   200     18       15   163   24     21  203            42     978
  7:45 - 8:00     47   229 55     34   196     20       15   183   30     27  249            57   1,142     130                                      122
  8:00 - 8:15     17   133 12     31   106     18       12    80    5     14  158            27     613
  8:15 - 8:30     16   113  6     24    99     15        7    65    6     12  152            31     546                  AM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                            637                                      675
  8:30 - 8:45     14    61  3     29    66     15       12    59   10      7  125            21     422
  8:45 - 9:00      7    72 11     22    67     14       11    56    5      7   98            27     397                  7:15 - 8:15
                                                                                                            71                                       125
  1-HOUR        WESTBOUND          EASTBOUND          NORTHBOUND             SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS         L     T    R       L     T     R       L    T        R        L    T     R       TOTAL
 7:00 - 8:00   121   616  120     123   621    63      47  537       84       72  820   125       3,349
 7:15 - 8:15   125   675  122     130   637    71      52  521       77       75  801   142       3,428 *
 7:30 - 8:30   121   653  113     122   601    71      49  491       65       74  762   157       3,279
 7:45 - 8:45    94   536   76     118   467    68      46  387       51       60  684   136       2,723
 8:00 - 9:00    54   379   32     106   338    62      42  260       26       40  533   106       1,978             52      521        77

                                                                                                                  HAYVENHURST AVENUE

PERIOD:       PM PEAK HOUR                          DATE: THURSDAY        DECEMBER 2, 2004                         139      436        33
 15-MINUTE       WESTBOUND        EASTBOUND            NORTHBOUND            SOUTHBOUND
   TOTALS          L     T    R    L     T      R        L    T       R        L    T         R   TOTAL
  4:00 - 4:15     15   106   14   43   142     16       16  128      15       12   84        32     623
  4:15 - 4:30     10    98   14   32   139      9       10  134      16       10   98        33     603




                                                                                                                                                             CHATSWORTH STREET
  4:30 - 4:45     15    95   18   34   155     20       19  130      20        5  104        35     650
  4:45 - 5:00     16   121   16   31   148     12       19  158      20        8  118        27     694     164                                       55
  5:00 - 5:15     20   103   12   43   174     18       18  153      25       10  102        37     715
  5:15 - 5:30     16    98   11   42   187     12       19  162      17        7  111        40     722                  PM PEAK HOUR:
                                                                                                            688                                      416
  5:30 - 5:45     11    94   16   48   179     16       12  153      19        8  105        35     696
  5:45 - 6:00     12   105    9   57   158     13       21  143      26        9   80        34     667                  4:45 - 5:45
                                                                                                            58                                        63
  1-HOUR       WESTBOUND           EASTBOUND          NORTHBOUND             SOUTHBOUND
  TOTALS        L     T       R     L     T     R       L    T        R        L    T     R       TOTAL
 4:00 - 5:00   56   420      62   140   584    57      64  550       71       35  404   127       2,570
 4:15 - 5:15   61   417      60   140   616    59      66  575       81       33  422   132       2,662
 4:30 - 5:30   67   417      57   150   664    62      75  603       82       30  435   139       2,781
 4:45 - 5:45   63   416      55   164   688    58      68  626       81       33  436   139       2,827 *
 5:00 - 6:00   59   400      48   190   698    59      70  611       87       34  398   146       2,800             68      626        81
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                         CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                        VALLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL - NORTHRIDGE
DATE:                           WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 01, 2004
PERIOD:                         07:00 AM TO 09:00 AM
INTERSECTION:        N/S        BALBOA BOULEVARD
                     E/W        DEVONSHIRE STREET
FILE NUMBER:                    1-AM


  15 MINUTE           1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT


   700-715                 51          288         25        19         246        50         19         151        20          16     162         38
   715-730                 48          304         16        16         275        67         21         176        24          14     192         45
   730-745                 38          335         36        26         341        66         28         214        51          35     251         71
   745-800                 53          326         31        29         326        63         42         254        53          38     272         74
   800-815                 52          366         41        35         319        62         31         260        48          31     216         67
   815-830                 56          324         25        35         284        50         26         242        45          32     191         70
   830-845                 59          315         40        22         195        46         25         221        35          21     199         54
   845-900                 50          289         31        18         167        40         28         213        24          20     187         40


   1 HOUR             1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT       TOTALS


   700-800                190      1253           108        90     1188           246        110        795        148     103        877     228        5336
   715-815                191      1331           124        106    1261           258        122        904        176     118        931     257        5779
   730-830                199      1351           133        125    1270           241        127        970        197     136        930     282        5961
   745-845                220      1331           137        121    1124           221        124        977        181     122        878     265        5701
   800-900                217      1294           137        110        965        198        110        936        152     104        793     231        5247


   A.M. PEAK HOUR                                                       199    1351           133
         0730-0830



                                             282                                                                          125


                                             930                                                                          1270
        DEVONSHIRE STREET
                                             136                                                                          241




                                                                        197        970        127



                                                                          BALBOA BOULEVARD




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                         CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                        VALLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL - NORTHRIDGE
DATE:                           WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 01, 2004
PERIOD:                         04:00 PM TO 06:00 PM
INTERSECTION:        N/S        BALBOA BOULEVARD
                     E/W        DEVONSHIRE STREET
FILE NUMBER:                    1-PM-1


  15 MINUTE           1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT


   400-415                 31          192         34        47         188        38         30         327        54          42     333     137
   415-430                 42          206         58        32         220        40         34         404        65          31     224         98
   430-445                 36          245         64        48         200        61         50         396        83          33     242     102
   445-500                 22          230         44        35         194        32         35         345        80          31     304     133
   500-515                 17          240         54        39         187        41         37         370        58          25     292     169
   515-530                 10          228         44        56         223        38         32         398        65          37     320     126
   530-545                 12          219         51        43         198        40         30         357        50          41     307     134
   545-600                 10          188         31        44         181        32         29         338        42          37     279     116


   1 HOUR             1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS            SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT       TOTALS


   400-500                131          873        200        162        802        171        149    1472           282     137       1103     470        5952
   415-515                117          921        220        154        801        174        156    1515           286     120       1062     502        6028
   430-530                 85          943        206        178        804        172        154    1509           286     126       1158     530        6151
   445-545                 61          917        193        173        802        151        134    1470           253     134       1223     562        6073
   500-600                 49          875        180        182        789        151        128    1463           215     140       1198     545        5915


   P.M. PEAK HOUR                                                       85         943        206
         0430-0530



                                             530                                                                          178


                                             1158                                                                         804
        DEVONSHIRE STREET
                                             126                                                                          172




                                                                        286    1509           154



                                                                          BALBOA BOULEVARD




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                        CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                       VALLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL - NORTHRIDGE
DATE:                          WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 01, 2004
PERIOD:                        07:00 AM TO 09:00 AM
INTERSECTION:       N/S        BALBOA BOULEVARD
                    E/W        LASSEN STREET
FILE NUMBER:                   2-AM


  15 MINUTE          1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS           SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT


   700-715                27          335         11        11         239        22           8        155        17          23     174         37
   715-730                23          389         20        20         348        30         10         173        18          40     260         32
   730-745                39          383         18        16         347        38         17         216        26          22     337         31
   745-800                37          398         18        20         313        26         35         244        28          30     313         35
   800-815                46          397         23        23         280        33         29         258        29          48     222         41
   815-830                51          361         24        17         186        28         15         226        31          24     162         44
   830-845                29          323         13        10         154        19         10         197        26          23     124         34
   845-900                33          304         11          8        140        24           8        182        19          18     112         26


   1 HOUR            1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS           SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT       WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT       TOTALS


   700-800               126      1505            67        67     1247           116        70         788        89      115       1084     135        5409
   715-815               145      1567            79        79     1288           127        91         891        101     140       1132     139        5779
   730-830               173      1539            83        76     1126           125        96         944        114     124       1034     151        5585
   745-845               163      1479            78        70         933        106        89         925        114     125        821     154        5057
   800-900               159      1385            71        58         760        104        62         863        105     113        620     145        4445


   A.M. PEAK HOUR                                                      145    1567           79
        0715-0815



                                            139                                                                           79


                                            1132                                                                         1288
          LASSEN STREET
                                            140                                                                          127




                                                                       101        891        91



                                                                         BALBOA BOULEVARD




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
INTERSECTION TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

CLIENT:                        CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                       VALLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL - NORTHRIDGE
DATE:                          WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 01, 2004
PERIOD:                        04:00 PM TO 06:00 PM
INTERSECTION:       N/S        BALBOA BOULEVARD
                    E/W        LASSEN STREET
FILE NUMBER:                   2-PM-2


  15 MINUTE          1            2          3          4         5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS           SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT      WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT


   400-415                34          198         22        22        169        22         24         339        35          24     205         34
   415-430                26          219         16        19        148        21         34         322        29          25     263         36
   430-445                23          201         21        21        193        28         50         363        23          30     275         47
   445-500                20          256         26        20        155        36         23         354        30          18     292         33
   500-515                17          255         40        31        174        23         17         338        33          24     308         52
   515-530                10          217         29        22        157        15         20         315        32          14     265         53
   530-545                22          189         23        20        174        15         23         309        38          10     249         45
   545-600                15          185         23        22        151        23         20         281        25          12     231         44


   1 HOUR            1            2          3          4         5          6          7          8          9          10         11      12
   TOTALS           SBRT        SBTH        SBLT       WBRT      WBTH       WBLT       NBRT       NBTH       NBLT       EBRT       EBTH    EBLT       TOTALS


   400-500               103          874         85        82        665        107        131    1378           117         97    1035     150        4824
   415-515                86          931        103        91        670        108        124    1377           115         97    1138     168        5008
   430-530                70          929        116        94        679        102        110    1370           118         86    1140     185        4999
   445-545                69          917        118        93        660        89         83     1316           133         66    1114     183        4841
   500-600                64          846        115        95        656        76         80     1243           128         60    1053     194        4610


   P.M. PEAK HOUR                                                     86         931        103
        0415-0515



                                            168                                                                          91


                                            1138                                                                        670
          LASSEN STREET
                                             97                                                                         108




                                                                      115    1377           124



                                                                        BALBOA BOULEVARD




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
             APPENDIX B
AUTOMATED STUDY STREET SEGMENT COUNTS
THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION - ADT WORKSHEET

CLIENT:                        CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                       VALLEY REGION HIGH SCHOOL #4 - GRANADA HILLS
LOCATION:                      GENESTA AVENUE S/O SAN JOSE STREET
DATE:                          TUESDAY, MARCH 08, 2005
FILE NO:                       A-2


DIRECTION:                           NORTHBOUND                     DIRECTION:                   SOUTHBOUND
  TIME       00-15    15-30          30-45      45-60       HOUR     TIME        00-15   15-30   30-45      45-60       HOUR
                                                           TOTALS                                                      TOTALS
   00:00        0         0             0            0          0     00:00         0       0       0            0          0
   01:00        0         0             0            0          0     01:00         0       0       0            0          0
   02:00        0         0             1            0          1     02:00         0       0       1            0          1
   03:00        0         0             0            0          0     03:00         0       0       0            0          0
   04:00        0         0             0            0          0     04:00         0       0       0            0          0
   05:00        2         1             3            1          7     05:00         1       0       0            0          1
   06:00        2         3             1            5         11     06:00         0       2       1            1          4
   07:00        5         7            17            7         36     07:00         3       2       8            5         18
   08:00        2         5             2            1         10     08:00         4       3       4            5         16
   09:00        3         3             3            5         14     09:00         1       3       2            4         10
   10:00        8         3             7            2         20     10:00         4       5       4            3         16
   11:00        0         3             0            1          4     11:00         4       0       2            2          8
   12:00        2         3             0            4          9     12:00         2       1       0            5          8
   13:00        5         4             5            7         21     13:00         5       2       3            4         14
   14:00        5         2             1            6         14     14:00         5       2       2            10        19
   15:00        2         1             8            4         15     15:00         6       4       6            3         19
   16:00        3         0             2            9         14     16:00         3       3       7            3         16
   17:00        3         3             3            3         12     17:00         7       4       9            7         27
   18:00        3         2             2            6         13     18:00         2       4       5            5         16
   19:00        1         3             3            2          9     19:00         2       2       3            0          7
   20:00        0         0             2            1          3     20:00         1       2       4            2          9
   21:00        0         2             1            0          3     21:00         0       1       0            0          1
   22:00        0         1             0            0          1     22:00         4       0       1            0          5
   23:00        2         1             0            0          3     23:00         0       0       0            0          0
                                             TOTAL            220                                        TOTAL            215


AM PEAK HOUR                                 07:00-08:00            AM PEAK HOUR                         07:30-08:30
VOLUME                                               36             VOLUME                                       20
PM PEAK HOUR                                 13:00-14:00            PM PEAK HOUR                         17:00-18:00
VOLUME                                               21             VOLUME                                       27




                               TOTAL BI-DIRECTIONAL VOLUME                                435




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION - ADT WORKSHEET

CLIENT:                       CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
PROJECT:                      VALLEY REGION HIGH SCHOOL #4 - GRANADA HILLS
LOCATION:                     SAN JOSE STREET W/O GENESTA AVENUE
DATE:                         TUESDAY, MARCH 08, 2005
FILE NO:                      A-1


DIRECTION:                          WESTBOUND                      DIRECTION:                    EASTBOUND
  TIME       00-15    15-30         30-45      45-60       HOUR     TIME        00-15   15-30   30-45      45-60       HOUR
                                                          TOTALS                                                      TOTALS
   00:00        1         1            1             0         3     00:00         0       1       1             0         2
   01:00        1         1            0             0         2     01:00         1       0       0             1         2
   02:00        0         0            0             0         0     02:00         1       0       0             0         1
   03:00        0         1            0             0         1     03:00         0       0       0             0         0
   04:00        1         0            2             0         3     04:00         0       1       2             1         4
   05:00        0         2            3             1         6     05:00         1       1       8             3        13
   06:00        2         5           10             8        25     06:00         1      10      10            12        33
   07:00       29       46            70            63       208     07:00        13      34      51            39       137
   08:00       18       10            15            13        56     08:00        31      26      10            17        84
   09:00       10         8            8             9        35     09:00        17       9      11            18        55
   10:00        4         8           19             9        40     10:00        12      15      23            16        66
   11:00       13         9           10            16        48     11:00        11      11      15            14        51
   12:00       11       13            10            14        48     12:00        18      14      11            22        65
   13:00       15       22            35            21        93     13:00        26      18      49            35       128
   14:00       21       13            23            10        67     14:00        27      27      31            37       122
   15:00       12       23            15            21        71     15:00        29      31      27            25       112
   16:00       17       24            10            15        66     16:00        19      30      20            29        98
   17:00       24       15            22            20        81     17:00        24      29      29            33       115
   18:00       11       18            12            11        52     18:00        21      21      19            24        85
   19:00       20       10             9             4        43     19:00        10       6      11             9        36
   20:00        9         8            5             9        31     20:00         7       9       7             7        30
   21:00        3         5            3             8        19     21:00         8       8       2             5        23
   22:00        5         5            1             4        15     22:00         7       7       1             2        17
   23:00        2         3            2             2         9     23:00         4      10       2             2        18
                                            TOTAL           1022                                        TOTAL           1297


AM PEAK HOUR                                07:00-08:00            AM PEAK HOUR                         07:15-08:15
VOLUME                                           208               VOLUME                                    155
PM PEAK HOUR                                13:15-14:15            PM PEAK HOUR                         13:30-14:30
VOLUME                                              99             VOLUME                                    138




                              TOTAL BI-DIRECTIONAL VOLUME                               2319




   THE TRAFFIC SOLUTION
   329 DIAMOND STREET
   ARCADIA, CALIFORNIA 91006
   626.446.7978
        APPENDIX C
CMA CALCULATION WORKSHEETS
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           134                1066               24               0
EASTBOUND            98                 866               44               0
NORTHBOUND           45                 151               20              94
SOUTHBOUND           27                 345              127               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           134          N/A       545         545          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            98          N/A       455         455          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          196       N/A         N/A           20      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      499



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  643
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  544
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1187

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.791

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 2
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           144                1155               26               0
EASTBOUND           106                 943               47               0
NORTHBOUND           48                 175               23             100
SOUTHBOUND           29                 381              137               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           144          N/A       590         590          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           106          N/A       495         495          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          223       N/A         N/A           23      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      547



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  696
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  595
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1291

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.861

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 3
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           144                1155               26               0
EASTBOUND           106                 958               47               0
NORTHBOUND           63                 198               33              97
SOUTHBOUND           40                 381              137               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           144          N/A       590         590          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           106          N/A       502         502          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          261       N/A         N/A           33      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      558



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  696
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  621
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1317

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.878

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 4
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            37                 685               35               0
EASTBOUND           109                1177               17               0
NORTHBOUND           24                 265              108              18
SOUTHBOUND           19                  68               58               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            37          N/A       360         360          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           109          N/A       597         597          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          289       N/A         N/A          108      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      145



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   634
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   308
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   942

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.628

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 5
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            40                 752               38               0
EASTBOUND           117                1280               18               0
NORTHBOUND           26                 296              116              20
SOUTHBOUND           20                  84               62               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            40          N/A       395         395          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           117          N/A       649         649          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          322       N/A         N/A          116      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      166



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  689
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  342
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1031

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.687

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 6
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:1, CHATSWORTH ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            40                 752               38               0
EASTBOUND           117                1300               18               0
NORTHBOUND           23                 292              115              20
SOUTHBOUND           34                  84               62               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          0       1      0             0        1         0       2
SOUTHBOUND          0       0      0             0        0         1       1

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            40          N/A       395         395          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           117          N/A       659         659          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          N/A          315       N/A         N/A          115      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      180



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  699
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  349
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1048

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.699

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 7
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           115                 321               84               0
EASTBOUND           413                 773               58              74
NORTHBOUND          112                1468              117               0
SOUTHBOUND           71                1096              260               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           115          N/A       202         202          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           413          N/A       386         N/A           58      N/A
NORTHBOUND          112          N/A       528         528          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           71          N/A       452         452          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  615
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  599
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1214

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.852

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 8
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           124                 353               91               0
EASTBOUND           446                 842               62              80
NORTHBOUND          121                1621              126               0
SOUTHBOUND           76                1210              280               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           124          N/A       222         222          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           446          N/A       421         N/A           62      N/A
NORTHBOUND          121          N/A       582         582          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           76          N/A       497         497          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  668
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  658
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1326

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.931

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 9
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           150                 353               91               0
EASTBOUND           446                 842               93              75
NORTHBOUND          121                1621              126               0
SOUTHBOUND           76                1243              280               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           150          N/A       222         222          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           446          N/A       421         N/A           93      N/A
NORTHBOUND          121          N/A       582         582          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           76          N/A       508         508          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  668
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  658
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1326

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.931

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 10
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           150                 353               91               0
EASTBOUND           446                 842               93              75
NORTHBOUND          121                1621              126               0
SOUTHBOUND           76                1243              280               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           2       0      2             0        1         0       5
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           150          N/A       222         222          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           245          N/A       421         N/A           93      N/A
NORTHBOUND          121          N/A       582         582          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           76          N/A       508         508          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  571
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  658
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1229

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.862

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 11
1/5/2006 10:51:27 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           161                 665               54               0
EASTBOUND           274                 648               84              32
NORTHBOUND           64                 870               60               0
SOUTHBOUND           81                1607              246               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           161          N/A       360         360          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           274          N/A       324         N/A           84      N/A
NORTHBOUND           64          N/A       310         310          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           81          N/A       618         618          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  634
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  682
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1316

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.924

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 12
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           173                 726               62               0
EASTBOUND           299                 706               91              34
NORTHBOUND           69                 983               65               0
SOUTHBOUND           91                1788              269               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           173          N/A       394         394          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           299          N/A       353         N/A           91      N/A
NORTHBOUND           69          N/A       349         349          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           91          N/A       686         686          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  693
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  755
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1448

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.016

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 13
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           207                 726               62               0
EASTBOUND           299                 706              125              34
NORTHBOUND           69                 983               65               0
SOUTHBOUND           91                1830              269               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           207          N/A       394         394          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           299          N/A       353         N/A          125      N/A
NORTHBOUND           69          N/A       349         349          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           91          N/A       700         700          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  693
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  769
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1462

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.026

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 14
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:2, CHATSWORTH ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           207                 726               62               0
EASTBOUND           299                 706              125              34
NORTHBOUND           69                 983               65               0
SOUTHBOUND           91                1830              269               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           2       0      2             0        1         0       5
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           207          N/A       394         394          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           164          N/A       353         N/A          125      N/A
NORTHBOUND           69          N/A       349         349          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           91          N/A       700         700          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  560
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  769
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1329

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.933

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 15
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           127                 685              124               0
EASTBOUND           132                 647               72               0
NORTHBOUND           53                 529               78               0
SOUTHBOUND           76                 813              144               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           127          N/A       404         404          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           132          N/A       360         360          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           53          N/A       304         304          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           76          N/A       478         478          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  536
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  531
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1067

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.711

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 16
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           137                 741              134               0
EASTBOUND           146                 702               78               0
NORTHBOUND           57                 588               84               0
SOUTHBOUND           82                 899              160               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           137          N/A       438         438          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           146          N/A       390         390          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           57          N/A       336         336          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           82          N/A       530         530          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  584
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  587
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1171

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.781

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 17
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           137                 756              134               0
EASTBOUND           146                 702               78               0
NORTHBOUND           64                 608              100               0
SOUTHBOUND           82                 899              171               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           137          N/A       445         445          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           146          N/A       390         390          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           64          N/A       354         354          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           82          N/A       535         535          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  591
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  599
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1190

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.793

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 18
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            64                 422               56               0
EASTBOUND           166                 698               59               0
NORTHBOUND           69                 635               82               0
SOUTHBOUND           33                 443              141               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            64          N/A       239         239          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           166          N/A       378         378          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           69          N/A       358         358          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           33          N/A       292         292          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   442
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   391
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   833

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.555

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           A




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 19
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            69                 467               60               0
EASTBOUND           181                 762               64               0
NORTHBOUND           74                 695               88               0
SOUTHBOUND           36                 488              154               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            69          N/A       264         264          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           181          N/A       413         413          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           74          N/A       392         392          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           36          N/A       321         321          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   482
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   428
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   910

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.607

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 20
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:3, CHATSWORTH ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            69                 487               60               0
EASTBOUND           181                 762               64               0
NORTHBOUND           73                 691               85               0
SOUTHBOUND           36                 488              168               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            69          N/A       274         274          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           181          N/A       413         413          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           73          N/A       388         388          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           36          N/A       328         328          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   482
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   424
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   906

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.604

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 21
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            29                  85               23               0
EASTBOUND            56                  44               43               0
NORTHBOUND           38                 738               17               0
SOUTHBOUND           11                1459               69               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      137
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      143
NORTHBOUND           38          N/A       252         252          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           11          N/A       509         509          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   193
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   547
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   740

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.493

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           A




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 22
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            31                  92               25               0
EASTBOUND            60                  47               46               0
NORTHBOUND           41                 835               18               0
SOUTHBOUND           12                1601               74               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      148
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      153
NORTHBOUND           41          N/A       284         284          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           12          N/A       558         558          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   208
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   599
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   807

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.538

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           A




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 23
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            96                  92               25               0
EASTBOUND            60                  47              114               0
NORTHBOUND           41                 835               18               0
SOUTHBOUND           12                1686               74               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      213
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      221
NORTHBOUND           41          N/A       284         284          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           12          N/A       587         587          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   317
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   628
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   945

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.630

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 24
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            96                  92               25               0
EASTBOUND            60                  47               94              20
NORTHBOUND           41                 835               18               0
SOUTHBOUND           12                1686               74               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       1      0             0        1         0       2
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      213
EASTBOUND           N/A          107       N/A         N/A           94      N/A
NORTHBOUND           41          N/A       284         284          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           12          N/A       587         587          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   273
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   628
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   901

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.601

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 25
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            15                  16               45               0
EASTBOUND            70                  21               55               0
NORTHBOUND           50                1935               38               0
SOUTHBOUND           42                1050               75               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A       76
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      146
NORTHBOUND           50          N/A       658         658          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           42          N/A       375         375          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   161
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   700
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   861

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.574

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           A




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 26
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            16                  17               48               0
EASTBOUND            76                  23               59               0
NORTHBOUND           54                2130               41               0
SOUTHBOUND           45                1187               82               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A       81
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      158
NORTHBOUND           54          N/A       724         724          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           45          N/A       423         423          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................   174
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............   769
                                                         -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ...............   943

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.629

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 27
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           100                  17               48               0
EASTBOUND            76                  23              146               0
NORTHBOUND           54                2130               41               0
SOUTHBOUND           45                1297               82               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      165
EASTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      245
NORTHBOUND           54          N/A       724         724          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           45          N/A       460         460          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  345
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  769
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1114

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.743

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 28
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:4, SAN JOSE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           100                  17               48               0
EASTBOUND            76                  23                0             146
NORTHBOUND           54                2130               41               0
SOUTHBOUND           45                1297               82               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           0       0      0             0        0         1       1
EASTBOUND           0       1      0             0        1         0       2
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           N/A          N/A       N/A         N/A          N/A      165
EASTBOUND           N/A           99       N/A         N/A            0      N/A
NORTHBOUND           54          N/A       724         724          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           45          N/A       460         460          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  241
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  769
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1010

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.673

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 29
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           175                1528               66               0
EASTBOUND            42                1080               99               0
NORTHBOUND           78                 204               99               0
SOUTHBOUND          124                 403              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           175          N/A       797         797          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            42          N/A       590         590          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           78          N/A       152         152          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          124          N/A       268         268          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  839
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  346
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1185

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.790

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 30
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           189                1671               71               0
EASTBOUND            45                1189              107               0
NORTHBOUND           84                 232              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          134                 443              143               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           189          N/A       871         871          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            45          N/A       648         648          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           84          N/A       170         170          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          134          N/A       293         293          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  916
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  377
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1293

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.862

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 31
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           200                1694              116               0
EASTBOUND            67                1189              107               0
NORTHBOUND           84                 271              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          134                 443              143               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           200          N/A       905         905          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            67          N/A       648         648          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           84          N/A       189         189          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          134          N/A       293         293          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  972
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  377
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1349

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.899

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 32
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           200                1694              116               0
EASTBOUND            67                1189              107               0
NORTHBOUND           84                 271              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          134                 443              143               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           200          N/A       905         905          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            67          N/A       648         648          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           84          N/A       189         189          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          134          N/A       293         293          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  972
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  377
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1349

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2*

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.799

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C

----------
* Includes CMA value decreased due to ATCS Implementation.




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 33
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            53                1063               66               0
EASTBOUND            53                1395               83               0
NORTHBOUND           53                 235               91               0
SOUTHBOUND           53                 103               37               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            53          N/A       564         564          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            53          N/A       739         739          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           53          N/A       163         163          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           53          N/A        70          70          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  792
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  216
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1008

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.672

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 34
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            57                1171               71               0
EASTBOUND            57                1525               89               0
NORTHBOUND           57                 264               98               0
SOUTHBOUND           57                 122               40               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            57          N/A       621         621          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            57          N/A       807         807          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           57          N/A       181         181          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           57          N/A        81          81          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  864
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  238
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1102

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.735

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 35
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            55                1167               63               0
EASTBOUND            85                1525               89               0
NORTHBOUND           57                 315               98               0
SOUTHBOUND           57                 122               40               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            55          N/A       615         615          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            85          N/A       807         807          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           57          N/A       206         206          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           57          N/A        81          81          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  862
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  263
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1125

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.750

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           C




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 36
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:5, DEVONSHIRE ST. & LOUISE AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            55                1167               63               0
EASTBOUND            85                1525               89               0
NORTHBOUND           57                 315               98               0
SOUTHBOUND           57                 122               40               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            55          N/A       615         615          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND            85          N/A       807         807          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND           57          N/A       206         206          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           57          N/A        81          81          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  862
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  263
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1125

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2*

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.650

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           B

----------
* Includes CMA value decreased due to ATCS Implementation.




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 37
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           245                1289              127               0
EASTBOUND           286                 944              138               0
NORTHBOUND          200                 985              129               0
SOUTHBOUND          135                1371              202               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           245          N/A       472         472          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           286          N/A       361         361          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          200          N/A       371         371          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          135          N/A       524         524          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  758
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  724
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1482

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.040

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 38
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           264                1414              137               0
EASTBOUND           308                1043              149               0
NORTHBOUND          215                1100              139               0
SOUTHBOUND          145                1506              218               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           264          N/A       517         517          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           308          N/A       397         397          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          215          N/A       413         413          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          145          N/A       575         575          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  825
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  790
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1615

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.133

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 39
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           264                1414              137               0
EASTBOUND           308                1043              149               0
NORTHBOUND          215                1100              139               0
SOUTHBOUND          228                1562              304               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           264          N/A       517         517          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           308          N/A       397         397          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          215          N/A       413         413          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          228          N/A       622         622          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  825
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  837
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1662

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.166

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 40
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           175                 816              181               0
EASTBOUND           538                1175              128               0
NORTHBOUND          290                1532              156               0
SOUTHBOUND          209                 957               86               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           175          N/A       332         332          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           538          N/A       434         434          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          290          N/A       563         563          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          209          N/A       348         348          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  870
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  772
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1642

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.152

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 42
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           189                 903              197               0
EASTBOUND           582                1286              138               0
NORTHBOUND          312                1692              168               0
SOUTHBOUND          227                1084               95               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           189          N/A       367         367          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           582          N/A       475         475          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          312          N/A       620         620          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          227          N/A       393         393          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  949
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  847
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1796

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.260

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 43
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:6, DEVONSHIRE ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           189                 903              197               0
EASTBOUND           582                1286              138               0
NORTHBOUND          312                1692              168               0
SOUTHBOUND          212                1074               80               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           189          N/A       367         367          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           582          N/A       475         475          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          312          N/A       620         620          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          212          N/A       385         385          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  949
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  832
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1781

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           3

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.250

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 44
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           179                1625                0              77
EASTBOUND            93                1160               68              24
NORTHBOUND           49                 397               88               0
SOUTHBOUND           97                 795              119               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           179          N/A       812         N/A            0      N/A
EASTBOUND            93          N/A       580         N/A           68      N/A
NORTHBOUND           49          N/A       242         242          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           97          N/A       457         457          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  905
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  506
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1411

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.941

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 46
1/5/2006 10:51:28 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           193                1771                0              83
EASTBOUND           104                1272               73              26
NORTHBOUND           53                 442               95               0
SOUTHBOUND          104                 873              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           193          N/A       886         N/A            0      N/A
EASTBOUND           104          N/A       636         N/A           73      N/A
NORTHBOUND           53          N/A       268         268          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          104          N/A       503         503          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  990
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  556
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1546

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.031

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 47
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           193                1771                0             105
EASTBOUND           147                1295               84              26
NORTHBOUND           53                 479               95               0
SOUTHBOUND          104                 873              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           193          N/A       886         N/A            0      N/A
EASTBOUND           147          N/A       648         N/A           84      N/A
NORTHBOUND           53          N/A       287         287          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          104          N/A       503         503          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................ 1033
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  556
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1589

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.059

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 48
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           193                1771              105               0
EASTBOUND           147                1295               84              26
NORTHBOUND           53                 479               95               0
SOUTHBOUND          104                 873              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           193          N/A       625         625          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           147          N/A       648         N/A           84      N/A
NORTHBOUND           53          N/A       287         287          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          104          N/A       503         503          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  841
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  556
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1397

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.931

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 49
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            79                1140               47              48
EASTBOUND           197                1337                0              59
NORTHBOUND           97                 698               99               0
SOUTHBOUND           95                 363              126               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            79          N/A       570         N/A           47      N/A
EASTBOUND           197          N/A       668         N/A            0      N/A
NORTHBOUND           97          N/A       398         398          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           95          N/A       244         244          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  767
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  493
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1260

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.840

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 50
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            85                1252               51              51
EASTBOUND           214                1460                0              64
NORTHBOUND          104                 761              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          102                 400              138               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            85          N/A       626         N/A           51      N/A
EASTBOUND           214          N/A       730         N/A            0      N/A
NORTHBOUND          104          N/A       434         434          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          102          N/A       269         269          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  840
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  536
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1376

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.917

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 51
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            85                1252               79              51
EASTBOUND           206                1456                0              62
NORTHBOUND          104                 809              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          102                 400              138               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            85          N/A       626         N/A           79      N/A
EASTBOUND           206          N/A       728         N/A            0      N/A
NORTHBOUND          104          N/A       458         458          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          102          N/A       269         269          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  832
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  560
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1392

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.928

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 52
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:7, DEVONSHIRE ST. & HAYVENHURST AVE.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND            85                1252              130               0
EASTBOUND           206                1456                0              62
NORTHBOUND          104                 809              107               0
SOUTHBOUND          102                 400              138               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      2             1        0         0       4
EASTBOUND           1       0      2             0        1         0       4
NORTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      1             1        0         0       3

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND            85          N/A       461         461          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           206          N/A       728         N/A            0      N/A
NORTHBOUND          104          N/A       458         458          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          102          N/A       269         269          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  813
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  560
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1373

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.915

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 53
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           129                1307               80               0
EASTBOUND           141                1149              142               0
NORTHBOUND          103                 904               92               0
SOUTHBOUND           80                1591              147               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           129          N/A       694         694          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           141          N/A       646         646          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          103          N/A       332         332          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           80          N/A       579         579          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  835
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  682
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1517

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.011

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 54
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           139                1476               86               0
EASTBOUND           182                1294              166               0
NORTHBOUND          116                 983               99               0
SOUTHBOUND           86                1724              177               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           139          N/A       781         781          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           182          N/A       730         730          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          116          N/A       361         361          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           86          N/A       634         634          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  963
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  750
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1713

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.142

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 55
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           139                1476               86               0
EASTBOUND           182                1294              166               0
NORTHBOUND          116                 983               99               0
SOUTHBOUND           97                1758              188               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           139          N/A       781         781          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           182          N/A       730         730          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          116          N/A       361         361          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           97          N/A       649         649          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  963
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  765
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1728

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.152

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 56
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: AM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           139                1476               86               0
EASTBOUND           182                1294              166               0
NORTHBOUND          116                 983               99               0
SOUTHBOUND           97                1758              188               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           139          N/A       781         781          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           182          N/A       730         730          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          116          N/A       361         361          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND           97          N/A       649         649          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  963
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  765
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1728

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2*

             CMA VALUE ................................. 1.052

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           F

----------
* Includes CMA value decreased due to ATCS Implementation.




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 57
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: EXISTING (2005)

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           110                 680               92               0
EASTBOUND           171                1155               98               0
NORTHBOUND          117                1398              126               0
SOUTHBOUND          105                 945               87               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           110          N/A       386         386          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           171          N/A       626         626          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          117          N/A       508         508          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          105          N/A       344         344          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  736
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  613
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1349

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.899

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 58
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITHOUT PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           119                 776               99               0
EASTBOUND           214                1280              121               0
NORTHBOUND          145                1518              136               0
SOUTHBOUND          113                1030              135               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           119          N/A       438         438          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           214          N/A       700         700          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          145          N/A       551         551          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          113          N/A       388         388          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  819
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  664
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1483

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.989

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 59
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           119                 776               99               0
EASTBOUND           214                1280              121               0
NORTHBOUND          145                1518              136               0
SOUTHBOUND          111                1024              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           119          N/A       438         438          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           214          N/A       700         700          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          145          N/A       551         551          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          111          N/A       386         386          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  819
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  662
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1481

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.987

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           E




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 60
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
                               CRAIN & ASSOCIATES
                                CMA CALCULATIONS


INTERSECTION:8, LASSEN ST. & BALBOA BLVD.
DATE: 1/5/2006   INITIALS: HS   PERIOD: PM PEAK HOUR
CASE: FUTURE (2010) WITH PROJECT PLUS MITIGATION

                                **   INPUT VOLUMES      **

APPROACH                                            **      RIGHT TURNS      **
                   LEFT              THROUGH        MIN ON GREEN     MAX ON RED
WESTBOUND           119                 776               99               0
EASTBOUND           214                1280              121               0
NORTHBOUND          145                1518              136               0
SOUTHBOUND          111                1024              133               0

                                **   NUMBER OF LANES     **

APPROACH           LEFT    LEFT THROUGH         RIGHT   RIGHT      L/T/R   TOTAL
                   ONLY   SHARED  ONLY         SHARED    ONLY     SHARED   LANES
WESTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
EASTBOUND           1       0      1             1        0         0       3
NORTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4
SOUTHBOUND          1       0      2             1        0         0       4

                          **   ASSIGNED LANE VOLUMES         **

APPROACH           LEFT         LEFT    THROUGH       RIGHT       RIGHT     L/T/R
                   ONLY        SHARED     ONLY       SHARED        ONLY    SHARED
WESTBOUND           119          N/A       438         438          N/A      N/A
EASTBOUND           214          N/A       700         700          N/A      N/A
NORTHBOUND          145          N/A       551         551          N/A      N/A
SOUTHBOUND          111          N/A       386         386          N/A      N/A



             EAST-WEST CRITICAL VOLUMES ................  819
             NORTH-SOUTH CRITICAL VOLUMES ..............  662
                                                        -----
             THE SUM OF CRITICAL VOLUMES ............... 1481

             NUMBER OF CRITICAL CLEARANCE INTERVALS ....           2*

             CMA VALUE ................................. 0.887

             LEVEL OF SERVICE ..........................           D

----------
* Includes CMA value decreased due to ATCS Implementation.




File: I:\Crain Projects\Active Projects\LAUSD Valley Region High School
#4\Data\Icap7\VRHS Total 1-06.xls, Worksheet: Total, Row: 61
1/5/2006 10:51:29 AM
     APPENDIX D
SIGNED MOU FROM LADOT
                                Attachment 1                               Crain & Associates
                                                                                     9/1/2005
                                                                                         Draft

                      LAUSD Valley Region High School #4
                         Trip Generation Calculation




                                                      AM Peak Hour                 Daily
Use                   Amount Units               In        Out     Total

Proposed Use
 High School            1,215 Students         316        267       583             2,078

Less Existing Use
 Hospital                 201 Beds             (98)        (42)    (140)           (3,225)

Net Site Generation                            218        225       443            (1,147)
        APPENDIX E
CONCEPTUAL MITIGATION PLAN
