Traffic Study Policies
      and Procedures

                    June 2013




            City of Los Angeles
    Department of Transportation

                 http://ladot.lacity.org/
   For comments or questions regarding the Traffic Study Policies and
Procedures for the City of Los Angeles, please call LADOT's Development
         Services Division at (213) 972-8482 or (213) 972-8476.

 This document may be reprinted and excerpts may be extracted without
  permission by LADOT. Changes to these policies may be revised or
   updated periodically and will be posted on the LADOT web site at:

           http://ladot.lacity.org/tf_Development_Review.htm
                                                         June 2013

                     TRAFFIC STUDY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


A.   TRAFFIC STUDY REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................. 5

B.   TRAFFIC STUDY PREPARATION PROCESS.................................................................. 6

C.   TRAFFIC COUNT REQUIREMENTS................................................................................. 6

D.   CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM GUIDELINES ............................................. 8

E.   TRIP GENERATION CALCULATIONS .............................................................................. 8

F.   PERFORMANCE MEASURES - LEVEL OF SERVICE .................................................. 11

G.   SIGNIFICANT TRAFFIC IMPACT .................................................................................... 14

H.   TRANSPORTATION MITIGATION MEASURES ............................................................. 16

I.   TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ......................................... 22

J.   NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROGRAM............................................. 23

K.   LADOT CONTACTS ......................................................................................................... 24


                                                      ATTACHMENTS

               "A"       Acronyms
               "B"       Review Process for Traffic Study
               "C"       Driveway Design Guidelines
               "D"       Standard Street Dimensions
               "E"       Traffic Study Memorandum of Understanding
               "F"       Traffic Study Figures
               "G"       Traffic Study Checklist
               "H"       Sample Traffic Count
               "I"       Pass-by Trips
               "J"       Sample LOS Calculations
               "K"       Sample Mitigation Drawing
               "L"       Transportation Demand Management and Trip Reduction Measures
                         (Ordinance 168,700 / LAMC 12.26-J)
               "M"       Development Review Fees (Ordinance No. 180,542 / LAMC 19.15)
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                   June 2013




INTRODUCTION
The purpose of these Traffic Study Policies and Procedures (TSPP) for the City of Los
Angeles is to provide the public, private consultants and City staff with standards,
guidelines, objectives and criteria to be used in the preparation of a traffic impact study. A
primary objective of these policies is to ensure consistency in the preparation of traffic
studies and in the planning of site access, on-site circulation, and off-site improvements for
proposed land use development projects. This edition of the TSPP guides the preparation
of traffic impact studies at a time when sustainability, smart growth, and the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions are prime concerns for the City - in addition to traditional
mobility considerations.

A traffic study may be required of a development project due to environmental law or to City
regulations, and its purpose is to predict and analyze the circulation and congestion
impacts of project-generated traffic, and identify feasible mitigation measures. In this
edition of the TSPP, added emphasis has been placed upon transportation demand
management and multi-modal strategies, as reflected in the mitigation toolkit in Section H.
This reflects the City policy trend away from automobile-centric solutions to shifting the
focus on trip reduction strategies and on providing multi-modal solutions. It is strongly
recommended that the applicant's traffic engineer consult with LADOT staff early in the
design of the Project to ensure that traffic access and circulation issues are addressed, and
to establish the scope and basic assumptions of the traffic impact study.

In order to ensure a timely review by LADOT, the following procedures and standards shall
be followed in the preparation of a traffic study. It should be noted that these requirements
will be updated from time to time and may differ in certain areas of the City that have
specific plans or similar ordinances. You are encouraged to consult with LADOT staff
before beginning a traffic study. See Attachment A for a list of the various acronyms used
in this document.


NOTE:            Fees for the various submittals and reviews described in this TSPP are listed
                 in the Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) Section 19.15 (Planning and
                 Zoning Code).
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                    June 2013



A.      TRAFFIC STUDY REQUIREMENTS

        Upon submission of an application for discretionary action, the City of Los Angeles Department of
        Transportation (LADOT) will prepare an initial assessment of the project to determine if a technical
        memorandum or a traffic study is required. The thresholds for determining the appropriate
        transportation review process is as follows:

        ·        A Technical Memorandum is required when the project is likely to add 25 to 42 a.m. or p.m.
                 peak hour trips, and the adjacent intersection(s) are presently estimated to be operating at
                 LOS E or F. The scope for preparing a technical memorandum, which is a significantly
                 scaled-down version of a traffic study, must be reviewed and approved by LADOT. At a
                 minimum, the potential impacts to intersections adjacent to the project should be evaluated.
                 The technical memorandum shall be prepared under the direction of, and signed by, a
                 Professional Engineer, registered in the State of California to practice either Traffic or Civil
                 Engineering.

        ·        A Traffic Study is required when the project is likely to add 500 or more daily trips, or likely
                 to add 43 or more a.m. or p.m. peak hour trips. Review of a traffic study is a nine-step
                 process as shown in Attachment B. The traffic study must follow the study guidelines, as
                 described herein, and shall be prepared under the direction of, and signed by, a Professional
                 Engineer, registered in the State of California to practice either Traffic or Civil Engineering.
                 Further, the Traffic Consultant must have a valid Los Angeles City Business Tax
                 Registration Certificate.

        Other requirements of a traffic study or a technical memorandum include:

        ·        Compliance with the scoping process identified in Section B.

        ·        Payment of any required processing fees for traffic assessment and review of a traffic
                 study or technical memorandum.

        ·        Submittal of the final electronic version of the traffic study or technical memorandum in
                 portable document format (PDF) before LADOT issues their project impact assessment
                 report.

        Occasionally, LADOT will review a traffic study for a Project that is later modified or changed. If
        LADOT determines that the Project description has changed such that extensive and major
        revisions to the traffic study are required, then the revised Project shall be considered a new Project
        and a new traffic study and traffic review fee will be required and the environmental processing
        "clock" shall start again. If LADOT determines that revisions to the traffic study can be
        accomplished without preparing a new traffic study, then LADOT will not require a new traffic study
        but may require the preparation of a technical memorandum and payment of a fee specific to
        technical memorandums or supplemental analyses.

        Similarly, if, after comments are received from LADOT on the traffic study, there is no further written
        communication from the applicant or the Traffic Consultant on the status of the Project for one year
        or more, then LADOT will assume that the Project is no longer being pursued. To reinstate the
        project, a new traffic study and traffic review fee will be required and the environmental processing
        "clock" shall start again.



                                                     Page 5
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                      June 2013


B.      TRAFFIC STUDY PREPARATION PROCESS

        Any applicant required to prepare a technical memorandum or traffic study for a development should
        follow the steps outlined below:

        1.       Contact LADOT to discuss the Project scope and to obtain approval on the assumptions and
                 content of the technical memorandum or traffic study. The assumptions and content of the
                 traffic study shall be in accordance with CEQA, the Los Angeles County CMP, any
                 applicable Transportation Specific Plan (TSP), or other applicable laws or ordinances.

        2.       Provide a general description of the Project size (defined by square-footage by use and/or
                 number of dwelling units), uses and heights of proposed new buildings and other structures
                 to be remodeled and/or removed. Include any sequence of phased construction and any
                 unusual conditions. Specify a building address, legal description and project title. For
                 Projects that require the preparation of an EIR, the analysis should include project
                 alternatives. For such projects, the LADOT assessment letter will be limited to summarizing
                 the findings and requirements solely for the applicant's preferred project alternative or the
                 alternative that generates the most peak period trips. Should the applicant request separate
                 assessments for each alternative, then additional traffic study review fees may be required.

        3.       Submit a site plan to LADOT for preliminary discussion of the Project's driveway location(s),
                 loading/unloading area, and parking scheme. The estimated distribution of Project trips
                 must be according to any necessary turn prohibitions for the proposed driveways. Generally,
                 final LADOT approval of driveway location(s) and parking scheme will be reviewed by
                 LADOT's Citywide One-Stop Counter, or at the Valley or West Los Angeles Development
                 Review Office (see Section K for contact information) as a clearance on the Project's
                 building permit. In order to minimize and prevent last minute building design changes, the
                 applicant should contact LADOT for driveway width and internal circulation requirements
                 prior to the commencement of building or parking layout design efforts so that such traffic
                 flow considerations are designed and incorporated early into the building and parking layout
                 plans. The design of driveways requires approval by LADOT and the Bureau of
                 Engineering. Please refer to the Attachment C for LADOT "Driveway Design" guidelines for
                 additional information.

        4.       To the extent possible, projects should incorporate the use of existing alleys into the design
                 of site access and circulation plans. The use of existing alleys should be used primarily for
                 vehicular access, loading and service.

        5.       The study should reference the City's 2010 Bicycle Plan (see link below) that was adopted
                 by the City Council on March 1, 2011. The Bicycle Plan should be reviewed to understand
                 the goals, objectives and planned improvements. Consultation with LADOT Bicycle
                 Program staff may be necessary to determine the implementation time frame of specific
                 bicycle lane improvements.

                 http://planning.lacity.org/cwd/gnlpln/transelt/NewBikePlan/Txt/LA%20CITY%20BICYCLE%20PLAN.pdf

        6.       Identify CMP intersections and other CMP requirements (see Section C).

        7.       Consult with other affected agencies or adjacent jurisdictions (i.e., Caltrans, L.A. County
                 Public Works, other cities, transit agencies, etc.) to assure that all traffic-related concerns
                 and issues that may result from the Project and may affect that agency are properly
                 addressed in the traffic study.


                                                     Page 6
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                     June 2013



        8.       Consult with the Bureau of Engineering and LADOT to determine any highway dedication
                 and street improvement requirements, as well as requirements under the Americans with
                 Disabilities Act (ADA). Please see Attachment D for "Standard Street Dimensions."

        9.       After paying the necessary fee per LAMC Section 19.15, sign a scoping memorandum of
                 understanding (MOU) with LADOT on the agreed upon assumptions including study
                 intersections, residential street segments and freeway segments; related projects; trip
                 generation rates; ambient growth rate; trip distribution pattern and trip assignments; trip
                 credits for existing active or previous land use; vehicle trip discounts for transit, internal or
                 pass-by trips; projected buildout year and traffic study methodology. Please see
                 Attachment E for a sample MOU.

        10.      If the project is expected to generate a significant number of regional trips, then the traffic
                 study may be required to incorporate subregional travel demand simulation modeling
                 software using either TransCad or EMME/2. The decision to require travel demand
                 modeling shall be made by the Bureau Chief supervising the development review functions
                 of the Department. These studies will be subject to LADOT's model calibration and
                 validation standards.

        11.      The applicant shall keep LADOT informed on the progress made in completing the traffic
                 study. LADOT approval is required on any changes to the executed MOU assumptions or
                 any other changes made in the traffic analysis before the final report is prepared.

        12.      The review of a traffic study shall begin after the applicant has completed the scoping
                 process and has paid any required fees to the City. The consultant shall also provide proof
                 of possessing a valid Los Angeles City Business Tax Registration Certificate.

        13.      The traffic study should include the maps and figures identified in Attachment F.

        14.      LADOT will not release their project impact assessment report until all documents and items
                 identified in Attachment G (including the entire traffic study in "pdf" format) are provided.
                 Until then, the traffic study submittal will be deemed incomplete.


C.      TRAFFIC COUNT REQUIREMENTS

        When collecting turning movement data at the study intersections, manual traffic volume counts
        should be collected in 15-minute intervals during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
        to 6:00 p.m., unless LADOT specifies other hours (e.g., for a signal warrant determination or
        weekend analysis). These traffic counts should include vehicle classifications, pedestrian volume
        counts, and bicycle counts. The traffic study should not use any traffic counts that are more than
        two years old. Additionally, unless otherwise required, all traffic counts should generally be taken
        when local schools or colleges are in session, on days of good weather, on Tuesdays through
        Thursdays during non-Summer months, and should avoid being taken on weeks with a holiday. The
        data should be summarized and presented in the standard LADOT format depicting turning
        movement volumes as shown in Attachment H, and submitted in digital and hard copy formats.

        If traffic count data is collected utilizing video technology equipment that is left unattended in the
        public right-of-way, then the appropriate LADOT Development Services Division staff (see Section
        K) should be notified prior to the installation of such equipment. Also, the video equipment should
        be clearly labeled to identify it as traffic counting equipment and to include the name and contact

                                                     Page 7
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                     June 2013

        information of the company conducting the count (see sample label below).



                                      TRAFFIC COUNTING EQUIPMENT

                                        FOR INFORMATION CONTACT

                                        (xxx) xxx-xxxx (Company Name)




D.      CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (CMP) GUIDELINES

        The "Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County" includes guidelines intended to
        assist local agencies in evaluating impacts of land use projects on the CMP system through the
        preparation of a regional transportation impact analysis (TIA). Appendix "D" of the 2010 CMP for
        Los Angeles County identifies the requirements and outlines the guidelines in the preparation of the
        CMP transportation impact analysis. A CMP TIA is necessary for all projects required to prepare an
        Environmental Assessment based on local determination. The geographic area examined in the
        TIA must include, at a minimum, the following:

        ·        All CMP arterial monitoring intersections, including freeway on and off-ramp intersections,
                 where a proposed project is expected to add 50 or more trips during either the weekday a.m.
                 or p.m. peak hours (of adjacent street traffic).

        ·        Mainline freeway monitoring locations where a project is expected to add 150 or more trips,
                 in either direction, during either the weekday a.m. or p.m. peak hours.

        Caltrans should be consulted through the Notice of Preparation (NOP) process to identify other
        specific locations to be analyzed on the state highway system. To assist in the evaluation of impacts
        on State facilities, the project's traffic consultant should refer to Caltrans' "Guide for the Preparation
        of Traffic Impact Studies" found at the following web site:

                 http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/tpp/offices/ocp/igr_ceqa_files/tisguide.pdf

        If, based on these criteria, the TIA does not identify any impacted regional facilities, then further
        CMP traffic analysis is not required. However, projects must still consider transit impacts (also per
        the 2010 CMP) and provide a calculation of CMP "credits" and "debits" for the project. For further
        information on the CMP TIA process, please call LADOT CMP Monitoring Section at (213) 972-
        8473.


E.      TRIP GENERATION CALCULATIONS

        Any trip credits must be approved by LADOT during the scoping process and those trips must be
        included in existing base year traffic counts.

        1.       ITE Trip Generation Rates
                 The latest edition of ITE's Trip Generation Handbook for trip generation rates and formulas


                                                    Page 8
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                    June 2013

                 should be used to estimate the Project's trip generation. However, if the Project is in a TSP
                 area, then the procedures and trip rate identified in the TSP should be applied. If other rates
                 are proposed, then these rates must first be submitted with appropriate background survey
                 data for approval by LADOT.

        2.       Unique Developments
                 Unique types of development may require trip generation studies of similar facilities in order
                 to determine actual trip rates for use in the impact analysis. These developments may
                 include land uses for which trip generation rates are not available in the ITE Trip Generation
                 Handbook, or land uses for which the rates in the ITE Trip Generation Handbook are based
                 on a small sample of surveyed sites. The procedures and the results of the trip generation
                 studies must be approved by LADOT.

        3.       Existing Use
                 When estimating the Project's net new trips, any claim for trip credits for an "existing" active
                 land use requires that the "existing" use is/was in place at the time of the base year traffic
                 counts. Generally, for CEQA purposes this means the "existing" use must have been active
                 for at least 6 months during the past 2 years. To fully ensure that "existing use" trip credit
                 claims are validated by LADOT, supporting documentation (leasing agreements, utility bills,
                 etc.) must be submitted. Documentation of any previous environmental review of the
                 circulation impacts of the "existing" use should be included in this submittal. Note that some
                 specific plan ordinances allow different time frames for the determination of existing use trip
                 credits and of any applicable trip fees.

        4.       Terminated Land-Use
                 Any claim for trip credits for a previously terminated land use must be supported with
                 appropriate documentation of the previous active use, such as copies of any building permit,
                 certificate of occupancy, business license, lease agreement, affidavits, or photographs as
                 well as documentation as to when the previous land use was terminated. Documentation of
                 any previous environmental review of the circulation impacts of the terminated land use
                 should also be submitted in support of such claims. The absence of documentation of
                 previous environmental review may result in denial of the claim for trip credits.

        5.       Pass-by Trips
                 Any claim for "pass-by" trip credits must use the trip reduction rates in the "LADOT Policy on
                 Pass-By Trips" in Attachment I. However, these rates may be superseded by additional
                 guidelines provided in specific plans or interim control ordinances. These rates are not
                 applicable when reviewing impacts at Project driveways and at intersection(s) immediately
                 adjacent to the Project site. Pass-by trip credits shall not be used in determining the
                 need for a traffic study.

        6.       Transit Credit
                 LADOT encourages developers to design and construct transit-friendly projects that provide
                 safe and walkable sidewalks to and from transit stations for project patrons. In line with the
                 City policy to promote the use of transit and walking, LADOT, at its discretion, may allow up
                 to a 25% transit/walk trip credit subject to the following guidelines, on a case by case basis:

                 a.       Developments above or adjacent to a Metro Rail, Metrolink, or Orange Line station,
                          or to a similar dedicated transit line station with convenient pedestrian access to the
                          station may qualify for up to 25% transit credit. The actual credit provided should be
                          determined by an analysis of the transit service frequency and density at the
                          specified transit station.


                                                     Page 9
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                       June 2013



                 b.       Developments within a 1/4 mile walking distance of a transit station, or of a
                          RapidBus stop, may qualify for up to a 15% transit credit. The actual credit provided
                          will be determined by an analysis of the transit service frequency and density at the
                          specified transit station or RapidBus stop. To obtain the maximum credit, applicants
                          should implement the following improvements listed in priority order:

                          ·           Provide a wider than standard sidewalk along the streets fronting the project
                                      through additional sidewalk easement or by dedicating additional right-of-way
                                      beyond street standards.

                          ·           Improve the condition and/or aesthetics of existing sidewalks leading to
                                      transit station(s) with adequate lighting to provide for a safer pedestrian
                                      environment.

                          ·           Provide continuous paved sidewalks / walkways with adequate lighting from
                                      all buildings in the Project to nearby transit services and stops. This may
                                      include mid-block paseos.

                          ·           Implement transit shelter improvements/beautification.

                 c.       If the development is not within 1/4 mile walking distance of a transit station or a
                          RapidBus stop, the Project may still qualify for up to 5% transit credit. To obtain this
                          credit, the Project should include specific features in its design that promote
                          alternative travel modes and provide certain amenities to tenants and employees.
                          Features and amenities that may qualify a Project for this credit include the following:

                          ·           An on-site transit information kiosk and/or on-site transit pass sales
                          ·           On-site facilities such as ATM machines, cafeteria and convenience
                                      shopping
                          ·           Charging for single occupant auto parking
                          ·           Car share programs
                          ·           Bicycle racks or other facilities on-site
                          ·           Provision of on-site concierge service to facilitate use of transit, taxis, or
                                      private shuttles by employees/residents
                          ·           Provision of shuttle service for employees and/or customers

                 No trip generation credit will be given automatically to developments located in an area with
                 infrequent transit service. However, all reasonable efforts by the developer to promote the
                 use of mass-transit or walking will be considered for transit credit on a case by case basis.

                 NOTE: Refer to Section H of this TSPP for transit-related mitigation measures.

        7.       Affordable Housing Credit
                 Residential or mixed-use developments that include Affordable Housing Units [as defined in
                 LAMC 12.22-A.25 (b)] qualify for a trip reduction credit of 5% on the basis of the percentage
                 of total dwelling units reserved as affordable. A development for which all proposed dwelling
                 units are to be affordable would receive the maximum aggregate credit of 5% (100 × 0.05).
                 A development with 20% affordable units would qualify for a 1% aggregate trip credit (20 ×
                 0.05), etc. Affordable Housing credit is allowed in addition to any Transit Credit granted
                 through Section D.6 above.


                                                        Page 10
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                     June 2013



F.      PERFORMANCE MEASURES - LEVEL OF SERVICE
        1.       For land use development projects, the Transportation Research Board, Circular 212 Critical
                 Movement Analysis (CMA) Planning Method, should be used to analyze traffic operating
                 conditions at study intersection(s). CMA is a method that determines the volume to capacity
                 (V/C) ratio on a critical lane basis and Level of Service (LOS) associated with each V/C ratio
                 at a signalized intersection. V/C ratios are measured on a scale of 0 to 1.000. LOS
                 describes the quality of traffic flow and is a measure of such factors as travel speed, travel
                 time and flow interruptions. LOS range from "A" to "F" with LOS "A" representing excellent,
                 free flow conditions and LOS "F" representing jammed, forced flow conditions. The following
                 table (see page 12) provides a description of the different LOS's and associated V/C ratios.

        2.       LADOT has developed a CMA spreadsheet in MS-Excel format to estimate the LOS for
                 study intersections. All traffic studies that require the use of CMA to estimate impacts should
                 be prepared using this spreadsheet. A digital copy of the spreadsheet will be provided to
                 firms preparing traffic studies in the City of Los Angeles. Please contact any of the LADOT
                 sections identified in Section K for a copy of the LOS spreadsheet. Completed LOS
                 calculations must be submitted to LADOT in digital format and included with the submittal of
                 the traffic study. A typical sample of a LOS calculation worksheet is shown in Attachment J.
                 For some intersections (such as a 5-legged intersection, diamond interchange, etc.), the V/C
                 ratio may need to be calculated manually or may need to be adjusted accordingly. The
                 appropriate methodology for these special cases should be discussed with the appropriate
                 LADOT staff during the MOU scoping process.

        3.       The use of the Highway Capacity Manual's (HCM) delay-based methodology for signalized
                 intersections is acceptable to LADOT for traffic impact studies associated with infrastructure
                 projects, including transit, rail, bicycle and roadway improvements. In such cases, micro-
                 simulation may also be necessary to fully understand the effects of the project in terms of
                 queue lengths, traffic signal timing parameters, transit travel times, etc. The following table
                 (see page 12) provides a description of the different LOS's and associated delays measured
                 in terms of "delay per vehicle."

        4.       The intersection capacity at intersections along a congested corridor may need to be
                 adjusted to account for reduced capacity due to gridlock, heavy pedestrian volumes, or other
                 prevailing factors. The LOS spreadsheet developed by LADOT allows users to override the
                 standard CMA capacities to account for these factors. However, any such revisions to the
                 standard capacities or to any formula or function used in the LOS spreadsheet require
                 LADOT approval.

        5.       Since the CMA and HCM methodologies and the resulting LOS is primarily an automobile-
                 oriented measure, LADOT is evaluating other performance measures that can yield
                 information related to other modes of travel. Doing so can provide useful information
                 regarding the ability of a project or traffic mitigation measure to reduce vehicle-miles-traveled
                 (VMT), to reduce green-house gas (GHG) emissions, and to promote other modes of travel.
                  Although some traffic mitigation measures can provide a measurable reduction in VMT or
                 GHG emissions, these measures may not show a quantifiable benefit when the performance
                 measure is LOS. In these cases, the traffic study should include a description of the
                 proposed improvement and the anticipated benefits to air quality. The traffic volume counts
                 collected at the study intersections should also identify the volumes of pedestrians and
                 bicycles that enter the intersection. These are helpful parameters and provide the
                 necessary context when evaluating the overall operation of each intersection.


                                                    Page 11
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                  June 2013



        LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS FOR SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS 1

     Level of       Volume/Capacity          Delay per Vehicle
     Service             Ratio                  (sec / veh)                        Definition

                                                                     EXCELLENT.      No vehicle waits
           A            0.000 - 0.600                10              longer than one red light and no
                                                                     approach phase is fully used.

                                                                     VERY GOOD.            An occasional
                                                                     approach phase is fully utilized;
           B            0.601 - 0.700              > 10 - 20
                                                                     many drivers begin to feel somewhat
                                                                     restricted within groups of vehicles.

                                                                     GOOD. Occasionally, drivers may
                                                                     have to wait through more than one
           C            0.701 - 0.800             > 20 - 35
                                                                     red light; backups may develop
                                                                     behind turning vehicles.

                                                                     FAIR. Delays may be substantial
                                                                     during portions of the rush hours, but
           D            0.801 - 0.900             > 35 ­ 55
                                                                     enough lower volume periods occur
                                                                     to permit clearing of developing
                                                                     lines, preventing excessive backups.
                                                                     POOR.       Represents the most
                                                                     vehicles that intersection approaches
           E            0.901 - 1.000             > 55 ­ 80          can accommodate; may be long
                                                                     lines of waiting vehicles through
                                                                     several signal cycles.

                                                                     FAILURE. Backups from nearby
                                                                     intersections or on cross streets may
                                                                     restrict or prevent movement of
           F        Greater than 1.000              > 80             vehicles out of the intersection
                                                                     approaches. Tremendous delays
                                                                     with continuously increasing queue
                                                                     lengths.




       1
           Sources: Transportation Research Board, Interim Materials on Highway Capacity, Transportation
           Research Circular No. 212, January 1980; and Transportation Research Board, Highway Capacity
           Manual 2010.


                                                    Page 12
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                                     June 2013



        5.          V/C ratios should be calculated to three decimals, rounded and summarized in a table
                    showing weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hour LOS at study intersections for existing
                    conditions, existing with Project, future without Project, future with Project and future with
                    Project plus mitigation. In a separate appendix, the traffic study shall include the detailed
                    LOS worksheets for each study intersection. The table summarizing the results of the
                    impact analysis should follow the format below:

                                                                                                      (Buildout Year)
               (Year)                                                                                                      Net
                                Existing     Project    (Buildout Year)   (Buildout Year)   Project    Project with
           Existing Traffic                                                                                              Project
                              Plus Project   Impact    Cumulative Base2      Project3       Impact        Traffic
             Conditions                                                                                                  Impact
                                                                                                        Mitigation

             V/C   LOS        V/C LOS                    V/C   LOS         V/C    LOS                  V/C    LOS



        6.          The LADOT traffic count database should be searched for any recent traffic counts at the
                    study intersections. If recent LADOT traffic counts are not available, then new traffic counts
                    shall be collected by a qualified data collection firm. Unless there are special circumstances,
                    traffic volume counts that are more than two years old will not be accepted and new traffic
                    counts should be collected.

        7.          The traffic study should include a map or table that illustrates the lane configurations and
                    lane volumes for each study intersection. Also, any programmed and funded transportation
                    improvements that are expected to be implemented on or before the project buildout year
                    should be identified in the traffic study. Should these programmed improvements include a
                    modification to the existing lane configuration to any of the study intersections, then the
                    study should identify these changes and include the revised lane configuration in the V/C
                    calculations for all future scenarios.

        8.          In determining the lane assignments for an intersection with an unmarked curb lane, the
                    V/C/ calculations may assume the capacity of a functional right-turn only lane, provided that
                    the lane width is a minimum of 18 feet wide, there are no bus stops at the approach, on-
                    street parking would not impede vehicles turning right, the pedestrian volumes are low
                    during the peak hour, and this de-facto right-turn operation has been verified in the field.

        9.          If necessary, the scope of the traffic impact analysis should be expanded to evaluate special
                    circumstances, such as:

                    ·         Summer weekend activity in recreational areas
                    ·         University/school graduation ceremonies or events
                    ·         Holidays or special events
                    ·         Swing shifts
                    ·         Developments with special visitor, employee or shopping hours or days
                    ·         Alternative Project scenarios if required by another City Department or adjacent
                              jurisdiction
                    ·         Analysis of Freeway LOS




       2
          The "cumulative base" scenario represents existing traffic conditions plus increases in traffic related
          to ambient growth and related projects
        3
          The "project" scenario is the cumulative base scenario plus the Project trips

                                                            Page 13
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                     June 2013



        10.      Should the traffic study include an analysis of freeway segments, then consultation with
                 Caltrans is needed on the capacity analysis methodology used to evaluate state facilities.

        11.      When determining which intersections should be included in the impact analysis for
                 development projects, only signalized intersections should be selected. Unsignalized
                 intersections should be evaluated solely to determine the need for the installation of a traffic
                 signal or other traffic control device, but will not be included in the impact analysis. When
                 choosing which unsignalized intersections will be reviewed, intersections that are adjacent to
                 the project or that are expected to be integral to the project's site access and circulation plan
                 should be identified. For these intersections, the overall intersection delay should be
                 measured pursuant to procedures accepted by LADOT during the scoping process. If,
                 based on the estimated delay, the resultant LOS is E or F in the "future with Project"
                 scenario, then the intersection should be evaluated for the potential installation of a new
                 traffic signal. The study shall include a traffic signal warrant analysis prepared pursuant to
                 Section 353 of LADOT's Manual of Policies and Procedures and submitted to LADOT for
                 review and approval.


G.      SIGNIFICANT TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
        1.       A transportation impact at a signalized intersection shall be deemed "significant" in
                 accordance with the following table except as otherwise specified in a TSP, ICO or CMP:


                                SIGNIFICANT TRANSPORTATION IMPACT (V/C Methodology)
                             Level of
                             Service       Final V/C Ratio            Project-Related Increase In V/C

                                 C        > 0.701 - 0.800            equal to or greater than 0.040

                                 D        > 0.801 - 0.900            equal to or greater than 0.020

                                 E        > 0.901-1.000              equal to or greater than 0.010

                                 F        Greater than 1.000         equal to or greater than 0.010

                 For purposes of this calculation, the "Final V/C Ratio" shall mean the future V/C ratio at an
                 intersection considering impacts with project, ambient and related Project growth but without
                 proposed traffic mitigation. "Project-Related Increase in V/C" shall mean the change in V/C
                 between the future V/C ratio with Project, ambient and related project growth but without
                 proposed traffic mitigation and the future V/C ratio with ambient and related project growth
                 but without Project and proposed traffic mitigation.

        2.       When utilizing the HCM methodology for signalized intersections for transportation
                 infrastructure projects, a transportation impact shall be deemed "significant" in accordance
                 with the following table:




                                                    Page 14
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                        June 2013




                               SIGNIFICANT TRANSPORTATION IMPACT (Delay Methodology)
                             Level of
                             Service           Final Delay          Project-Related Increase In Delay

                                 C               > 20 - 35         equal to or greater than 6.0 seconds

                                 D               > 35 ­ 55         equal to or greater than 4.0 seconds

                                 E               > 55 ­ 80         equal to or greater than 2.5 seconds

                                 F                 > 80            equal to or greater than 2.5 seconds

                 For purposes of this calculation, the "Final Delay" shall mean the future delay per vehicle at
                 an intersection considering impacts with project, ambient and related Project growth but
                 without proposed traffic mitigation. "Project-Related Increase in Delay" shall mean the
                 change in delay between the future delay with Project, ambient and related project growth
                 but without proposed traffic mitigation and the future delay with ambient and related project
                 growth but without Project and proposed traffic mitigation.

        3.       Commercial projects may be required to conduct residential street impact analysis. A local
                 residential street can be potentially impacted based on an increase in the average daily
                 traffic volumes. The objective of the residential street analysis is to determine the potential
                 for cut-through traffic impacts on a residential street that can result from a Project. Cut-
                 through trips are measured as vehicles that bypass a congested arterial or intersection by
                 instead opting to travel along a residential street. To address these potential impacts, non-
                 restrictive traffic calming measures should be considered and, if deemed warranted,
                 implemented to off-set any anticipated impacts. Restrictive traffic calming measures should
                 not be considered. See Section J for a description of restrictive and non-restrictive traffic
                 calming measures. When selecting residential street segments for analysis during the traffic
                 study scoping process, all of the following conditions must be present:

                 ·        the proposed project is a non-residential development and not a school

                 ·        the arterial is sufficiently congested, such that motorists traveling on the arterial may
                          opt to divert to a parallel route through a residential street; the congestion level of the
                          arterial can be determined based on the estimated LOS under project conditions of
                          the study intersection(s); LOS E and F are considered to represent congested
                          conditions

                 ·        the Project is projected to add a significant amount of traffic to the congested arterial
                          that can potentially shift to an alternative route; Project traffic would need to exceed
                          the daily minimum significance thresholds listed below under "Project-Related
                          Increase in ADT"

                 ·        the local residential street(s) provides motorists with a viable alternative route

                 A local residential street shall be deemed significantly impacted based on an increase in the
                 projected average daily traffic (ADT) volumes as follows:




                                                      Page 15
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                   June 2013




                                Projected ADT with                        Project-Related
                                Project (Final ADT)                       Increase In ADT

                                         0 to 999                           120 or more

                                      1,000 to 1,999              12 percent or more of final ADT

                                      2,000 or 2,999              10 percent or more of final ADT

                                      3,000 or more                8 percent or more of final ADT



H.      TRANSPORTATION MITIGATION MEASURES
        When a Project is expected to result in significant traffic impacts, the Project's traffic consultant
        should meet with LADOT to discuss potential transportation mitigation options before submitting a
        traffic study. Different transportation mitigation solutions should be explored when attempting to
        mitigate a Project's significant traffic impact to a level of insignificance. However, since
        sustainability, smart growth and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions have become prime
        concerns for the City in addition to traditional traffic flow considerations, mitigation programs should
        be developed to first focus on minimizing the demand for trips by single-occupant vehicles through
        trip reduction strategies or by encouraging other modes of travel like public transit and bicycling.
        Therefore, the following mitigation categories, listed in priority order, should be considered when
        evaluating and proposing transportation mitigations:

        1.       Transportation Demand Management Program (See Section I)
                 All projects are required to comply with LAMC 12.26-J. For additional trip reduction credits
                 as traffic mitigation, suggested elements of a TDM program should include, but not be
                 limited to, the following elements:

                 a.       Implementation of vehicle trip reduction incentives and services for Project
                          employees and/or tenants; provide on-site education on alternative transportation
                          modes.

                 b.       Implementation of flexible / alternative work schedules and telecommuting
                          programs.

                 c.       Provide a bicycle and pedestrian-friendly environment; provide bicycle amenities
                          such as secure bicycle racks, lockers and showers for employees.

                 d.       Provide bicycle parking beyond the requirements of the Bicycle Parking
                          Ordinance No. 182,386.

                 e.       Financial contribution to the City's Bicycle Plan Trust Fund.

                 f.       Implement a Bicycle Friendly Street improvement as identified in the Bicycle Plan;
                          such improvements can include curb extensions, wayfinding signage, diverters,
                          bicycle loop detection, shared lane markings, etc.

                 g.       Conduct educational workshops for Project employees and/or tenants related to
                          the usage of bicycles on streets including how to integrate bicycles use with

                                                       Page 16
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                      June 2013

                          transit use and how to ride next to vehicles.

                 h.       Provide bicycle repair stations for use by Project employees and/or tenants.

                 i.       Provide fully or significantly subsidized transit passes to Project residents and/or
                          employees.

                 j.       Implementation of first and last mile solutions that can increase the use of transit
                          by bridging the gap between transit stops/stations and a commuter's origin or final
                          destination

                 k.       Implementation of a parking cash-out program.

                 l.       Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 132(f), arrange pre-tax dollar transit
                          commute expense accounts to provide transportation fringe benefits to eligible
                          employees.

                 m.       Vehicle trip reduction incentives and services affecting visitors to the project, such
                          as shoppers, clients, patrons, etc.

                 n.       Financial support for the capital and/or operating costs of enhanced transit or
                          vanpool service to the project.

                 o.       Provision of a variety (mixed use) of land uses in close proximity, facilitating trip
                          making by walking, cycling or local shuttles.

                 p.       Provision of on-site facilities that encourage the use of alternate forms of
                          transportation such as bicycle lanes and amenities, enhanced pedestrian
                          connections, telecommuting facilities, etc.

                 q.       Include site trip cap and/or parking cap in trip monitoring agreements.

                 An initial draft performance-based TDM Program, prepared as outlined in Section I, must be
                 included in the traffic study for any Project seeking TDM trip reduction credits. If the TDM
                 Program is acceptable to LADOT, the applicant will be allowed to reduce the total Project
                 trips by an amount determined to be commensurate with the measures proposed in the TDM
                 Program.

        2.       Transit Capacity and Access Improvements
                 The elements listed below should be considered when developing transit system strategies.
                 The exact mitigation value shall be determined on the basis of the development's size, type
                 of use(s), and the frequency / density of transit service in the vicinity of the Project.

                 a.       Contribution of funds or equipment to increase the capacity of existing transit
                          systems (must be coordinated with transit providers)

                 b.       Transit shuttles provided by applicant (e.g., bus, taxicab, van, etc.)

                 c.       Contributions toward construction or enhancement of transit stations or centers

                 d.       Provision of facilities or equipment which expedite transit flow (e.g., transit priority
                          signal systems, HOV lanes, etc.)


                                                     Page 17
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                   June 2013



                 e.       Contributions toward operation/maintenance costs and/or fleet vehicle replacement
                          costs of existing transit service (must be coordinated with providers)

        3.       Parking Management Measures
                 a.     Contribution of equipment or funds to implement intelligent parking systems, which
                        can include the use of new parking meter technology, vehicle sensors, dynamic
                        signage, a central management system and a real time parking guidance system.
                        Such upgrades should be implemented along appropriate City block faces with
                        existing parking meter zones in the vicinity of the development, or at all approaches
                        and departures of an impacted intersection.

                 b.       "Unbundling" of parking spaces in multiple unit residential development, e.g., parking
                          shall be bought or rented separately when the dwelling units are initially bought or
                          rented, enabling discounts for not using parking spaces and/or complementing Flex
                          Car or other car sharing programs.

                 c.       "Unbundling" of parking spaces in non-residential development, e.g., employee
                          parking is not to be provided free-of-charge and/or parking costs are listed as a
                          separate line item in lease agreements. This would be a necessary component of a
                          Parking Cash-Out program.

        4.       Jobs / Housing Balance Measures
                 A trip reduction mitigation value of up to 10% may be approved for a development that
                 incorporates Work Force housing (dwelling units affordable to, and reserved for, sale to Low
                 and Moderate Income persons/families as defined in CA Health and Safety Code Section
                 50093 who are employed at the development) or which constructs such housing within a
                 one-half mile of the development. The exact mitigation value shall be determined based
                 upon an analysis of the development size and type of land use, employment type/density,
                 and the number of Work Force housing units to be provided. The affordability of the Work
                 Force housing units must be guaranteed for a minimum period of thirty (30) years.

        5.       Traffic Signal Operational Improvements
                 Traffic signal enhancements that include, but are not limited to, traffic signal phasing
                 modifications, new signal installations, signal controller upgrades, CCTV camera
                 installations, additional vehicle detector loops, etc., may be considered and provided as
                 traffic mitigation or as supplemental measures to proposed intersection mitigations. Signal
                 improvements that are considered project-serving or that provide access to the project are
                 not considered traffic mitigations.

        6.       Street Widening and Other Physical Improvements
                 Recommended improvements must be demonstrated to be physically feasible and must
                 meet minimum City standards. If a physical mitigation measure is proposed on a future
                 "bicycle lane" street (see "Designated Bikeways" in Appendix D of the Bicycle Plan), then the
                 mitigation should be designed to accommodate the future bicycle lane. Please see
                 Attachment K for a sample intersection mitigation drawing. Particular attention shall be
                 paid to resultant sidewalk widths, which should remain adequate for pedestrian activities and
                 meet ADA requirements.

        7.       Street Re-striping and Parking Prohibitions
                 Generally, street re-striping is not a preferred mitigation measure because it often requires
                 parking prohibitions which may cause secondary impacts in certain commercial and


                                                    Page 18
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                      June 2013

                 residential areas. Therefore, any parking impacts should be clearly identified through a
                 parking inventory and demand analysis. This analysis should include proposed measures to
                 mitigate any such impacts to the extent feasible. Additionally, should the mitigation require
                 the permanent removal of a parking meter space, payment to LADOT for lost parking meter
                 revenues is required. The current average annual revenue generated by one parking meter
                 is $1,000. Therefore, based on this average, the removal of each metered, on-street parking
                 space will require payment to LADOT in the amount of the average annual revenue over a
                 ten year period (currently estimated at $10,000 per space).

        8.       Fair Share Contributions
                 If a traffic study demonstrates that the applicant is responsible for only a portion of a large
                 and costly transportation enhancement, such as a bridge or roadway widening project, a fair
                 share contribution toward the cost of the improvement may be an acceptable mitigation. Fair
                 share contributions are applicable in those cases where there are other proposed
                 developments in the vicinity that may also contribute toward the cost of the improvement.

        9.       TSP Mitigation Trust Fund
                 If project is located in a TSP area, an applicant may be required to pay "trip fees" into a
                 mitigation trust fund for implementation of larger regional projects that are specified in the
                 TSP.

        10.      Infeasible Mitigation Measures
                 The traffic study should also include a discussion of mitigation measures deemed to be
                 infeasible, as appropriate, to record the reason(s) for rejecting these measures.

        11.      Substitute Mitigations
                 When no feasible mitigation measure is available, LADOT at its discretion may accept a
                 substitute mitigation measure at an adjacent intersection provided that appropriate technical
                 analysis is prepared to show the benefit at the impacted intersection.

        12.      Unmitigated Impacts
                 For projects with unmitigated traffic impacts that seek a Statement of Overriding
                 Considerations, other suitable enhancements should be evaluated and considered that
                 would address quality-of-life issues like implementing non-restrictive traffic calming
                 measures, traffic safety enhancements, traffic signal timing upgrades, and community
                 streetscape features like lighting, landscaping, shade, sidewalk repairs, etc. Such
                 improvements, whether voluntary or required, that benefit the community can serve to off-set
                 the significant impacts of a project. Also, when no other mitigation measures are available
                 and the Project results in unmitigated impacts, the developer should consider revising and
                 reducing the scope of the project.

        The adequacy and feasibility of each mitigation measure must be determined to the satisfaction of
        LADOT. The final required mitigation measures for the project will be determined by the appropriate
        decision maker (e.g., the City Planning Commission, the City Council). All mitigation measures shall
        comply with the following requirements:

        1.       Plan Preparation for Physical Mitigation

                 a.       Existing Conditions

                          i.          Prepare preliminary geometric design drawing to a scale 1" = 40' for each of
                                      the significantly impacted intersections for existing conditions, where


                                                        Page 19
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                          June 2013

                                      restriping and/or street widening is a proposed mitigation measure. Make
                                      field investigations and show all important roadway details, including
                                      adjacent land use(s), parking restrictions, sidewalks, driveways, lane
                                      dimensions, roadway striping, curb and right-of-way lines, and "footprints" of
                                      building line.

                          ii.         Use existing LADOT drawings where available and field check for accuracy
                                      to reflect current conditions.

                          iii.        Provide copy of current City Bureau of Engineering District Map illustrating
                                      public rights-of-way on impacted streets.

                 b.       Future Conditions with Mitigation

                          i.          Prepare preliminary geometric design drawing to a scale of 1" = 40' showing
                                      recommended changes in striping including additional roadway and
                                      right-of-way necessary to mitigate the significant impact(s) of the project for
                                      each location where street restriping and/or street widening is a proposed
                                      mitigation measure.

                          ii.         Plans showing striping modifications should include adequate segments of
                                      the roadway (approximately 300-400 feet on each leg of the intersection) to
                                      indicate the appropriate transitions from the existing striping.

                 c.       Standards
                          Geometric plans shall be prepared on LADOT 24" × 36" standard sheets. If more
                          than one mitigation is possible at a given location, separate plans for each alternate
                          mitigation measure may be prepared in consultation with LADOT. Mitigation design
                          drawings that are processed through the B-permit process should be submitted to
                          the LADOT Design Division in Auto-Cad format. The following criteria and standards
                          should be used in preparation of plans:

                          i.          Drawings of street improvements must show existing and proposed
                                      dimensions for:

                                      ·      Roadway widths
                                      ·      Right-of-way widths
                                      ·      Sidewalk widths
                                      ·      Curb radii
                                      ·      Location of traffic islands
                                      ·      Individual lane widths
                                      ·      Striping "tapers" and "cat-tracks"

                          ii.         Items to be shown on plans:

                                      ·      Parking restrictions (existing and proposed), bus stops (existing and
                                             relocated), driveways, signals, street lights, signs, trees, utility poles
                                             and catchment basins.
                                      ·      Type of development of adjacent properties.

                          iii.        Drawings of street improvements must show existing and proposed
                                      dimensions (typical dimensions are shown below). Increased widths may be

                                                         Page 20
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                    June 2013

                                      required for special circumstances such as predominant use by trucks and
                                      buses, higher design speeds, higher pedestrian volumes, etc.

                                      ·      Through lane = 10' - 11'
                                      ·      Left turn lane or two-way left-turn median = 10' - 11'
                                      ·      Right turn lane = 12'
                                      ·      Lane adjacent to curbed median = 12'
                                      ·      Curb lane without parking = 12' - 13'
                                      ·      Curb lane with parking = 18' (low speed) to 20' (high speed)
                                      ·      Bike lane without parking = 5' - 6'
                                      ·      Bike lane with parking = 13'

                          Note that modified street standards have been adopted for Downtown Los
                          Angeles and the Hollywood Community Plan area which differ from the City's
                          Standard Plan of Street Dimensions.

                 d.       Submit 3 copies of any proposed mitigation plans with the traffic study to the
                          appropriate LADOT Planning Office for review and comment by LADOT's Planning
                          Office, District Office, and Design Division.

                 e.       Attach the a.m. and p.m. peak hour lane volume diagram with the geometric design
                          plan for each intersection.

                 f.       Revise mitigation plans as required and re-submit the final mitigation plans to
                          LADOT for approval.

        2.       Guarantees of Mitigation Measures
                 All physical transportation mitigations and associated traffic signal work within the City must
                 be guaranteed through the B-Permit process of the Bureau of Engineering, prior to the
                 issuance of any building permit and completed prior to the issuance of any certificate of
                 occupancy. Temporary certificates of occupancy may be granted in the event of any delay
                 through no fault of the applicant, provided that, in each case, the applicant has
                 demonstrated reasonable efforts and due diligence to the satisfaction of LADOT. All
                 improvements along state highways and freeway ramps require approval from Caltrans. An
                 encroachment permit must be obtained from Caltrans for these improvements before the
                 issuance of any building permits.

                 In the event the originally proposed mitigation measure becomes infeasible, a substitute
                 mitigation measure may be provided subject to approval by LADOT or other governing
                 agency with jurisdiction over the mitigation location, upon demonstration that the substitute
                 measure is equivalent or superior to the original measure in mitigating the project's
                 significant impact.

        3.       Mitigation Monitoring Program in Draft EIR's
                 The necessary components of each mitigation measure in a mitigation monitoring program
                 should be stated separately for inclusion in the Draft EIR. These include:

                 a.       Identification of the responsible agency for monitoring the measure and the
                          designated coordination for all participants

                 b.       Qualifications, if any, of the necessary monitor(s)


                                                       Page 21
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                   June 2013

                 c.       The proposed schedule of the mitigation monitoring (i.e., dates of start-up,
                          observation period, frequency, and completion/termination) - this should be stated for
                          physical mitigation measures required during construction as well as those that are
                          for the operation/life of the project (e.g., TDM program)

                 d.       Sampling techniques and testing procedures to be used

                 e.       Equipment and materials needed

                 f.       Funding required and sources of funding for monitoring activities by both project and
                          City personnel (especially for long-term monitoring activities)

                 If the City adopts a Citywide Mitigation Monitoring Program, the components of the mitigation
                 monitoring plan will be modified accordingly.


I.      TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM

        TDM is a program designed to facilitate the use of alternate transportation modes to decrease
        dependency on single occupancy vehicles. LADOT strongly encourages the development of a
        comprehensive TDM program to eliminate as many new project trips as possible. LAMC 12.26-J
        (which applies only to construction of new, non-residential development in excess of 25,000 square
        feet gross floor area) requires, prior to issuance of a building permit, that the owner or applicant
        agree, by way of a covenant that runs with the land, to provide and maintain minimal TDM
        measures. LAMC 12.26-J is summarized in Attachment L.

        LAMC 12.26-J notwithstanding, a consultant may be required to prepare a more comprehensive,
        integrated program of TDM measures. If TDM, Transit, and/or Parking Management strategies are
        claimed as a mitigation of project-related traffic impacts, or if required under any applicable TSP or
        other City ordinances, then the TDM program shall include the following elements:

                 ·        Statement of measurable goals to be achieved
                 ·        Estimate of trips to be reduced
                 ·        Key elements of the program
                 ·        Schedule and responsibilities for implementation
                 ·        Identification of funding responsibilities
                 ·        Method of monitoring program performance
                 ·        Contingency plan and/or penalties for failure to achieve goals

        If vehicle trips will be reduced by operating or contributing to the operation of transit systems, a
        description of the transit program as well as a letter of support from the related transit service
        provider is required. The transit program shall contain elements similar to the TDM program
        described above. If the project is a mixed-use project that includes housing, LADOT will consider
        reducing the project's trip generation to account for the internal trip characteristics of the project.
        This credit will be limited to the trips that would be affected by the special features of the project
        relative to ITE or TSP trip generation rates. If the project site is under one ownership or control; is
        uniquely located so as to permit accurate monitoring of all site trips; and extraordinary trip reduction
        goals are proposed, LADOT may recommend a trip cap agreement. Such an agreement typically
        places a cap on the total vehicle trips entering and leaving the site during peak hours and includes a
        monitoring and contingency plan.



                                                    Page 22
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                                       June 2013


J.      RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
        If the traffic study indicates that the project may potentially result in residential street impacts, then a
        plan to reduce project traffic from traveling through nearby residential areas may be required as part
        of the mitigation program for the project. If neighborhood traffic management (NTM) measures are
        required to off-set potential residential street impacts, then, prior to project occupancy, the applicant
        shall conduct public outreach and develop a NTM plan, in consultation with LADOT, the affected
        Council District office and the affected neighborhood. Coordination with the appropriate Council
        District office may be necessary to designate the stakeholders that should facilitate the public
        outreach. The applicant shall also be responsible for conducting the engineering evaluation of the
        potential measures to determine the feasibility in regards to drainage, constructability, street design,
        etc. The applicant shall also be responsible in implementing any NTM measures approved by
        LADOT and supported by stakeholders. Prior to the outreach, a cost estimate on the potential NTM
        plan shall be determined in consultation with LADOT. The cost should be commensurate with the
        size of the project and with the level of residential street impacts that are expected. The
        development of the plan shall include the analysis of any relevant traffic data, roadway
        characteristics and conditions of the impacted residential street segments identified in the study.

        The NTM plan should focus solely on implementing non-restrictive traffic calming, which may
        include, but are not limited to, traffic circles, speed humps, roadway narrowing effects (raised
        medians, traffic chokers, etc.), landscaping features, roadway striping changes, and stop sign
        pattern. Restrictive measures such as turn restrictions, physical barriers, signal metering, etc.,
        should not be considered since these measures can potentially lead to the diversion of traffic from
        one street to another, or one neighborhood to another. The NTM plan should also consider and
        evaluate neighborhood improvements that can offset the effects of added traffic, including street
        trees, sidewalks, landscaping, neighborhood identification features, and pedestrian amenities. Such
        measures can support trip reduction efforts by encouraging walking, bicycling, and the use of public
        transit. As with other mitigation measures, any required NTM measures on City streets must be
        implemented prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. A temporary certificate of
        occupancy may be granted in the event of any delay through no fault of the applicant, provided that
        the applicant has demonstrated reasonable efforts and due diligence to the satisfaction of LADOT.
        The NTM plan shall be prepared in conformance with the guidelines established by LADOT and
        should contain, at a minimum, the following elements:

        ·        Description of existing facilities and neighborhood traffic conditions
        ·        Description of proposed neighborhood traffic controls, including sketches of specific street
                 modifications
        ·        Analysis of any change in existing or future traffic patterns as a result of implementation of
                 the plan
        ·        Implementation and monitoring program




                                                     Page 23
City of Los Angeles
Traffic Study Policies & Procedures                                                            June 2013


K.      LADOT CONTACTS

        Thank you for your cooperation. If you have any questions, please call the appropriate LADOT
        Development Services Division office as follows:

        ·        Metro Development Review
                 100 S. Main Street, 9th Floor
                 Los Angeles, CA 90012
                 (213) 972-8482 or (213) 972-8481
                 Fax (213) 972-8418
                 Coverage area includes all areas south of Mulholland Drive, east of Robertson Boulevard
                 and north of the San Pedro Community Plan area.

        ·        West Los Angeles Development Review
                 7166 W. Manchester Avenue
                 Los Angeles, CA 90045
                 (213) 485-1062
                 Fax (213) 485-1285
                 Coverage area includes San Pedro and all areas south of Mulholland Drive and west of
                 Robertson Boulevard

        ·        Valley Development Review
                 6262 Van Nuys Boulevard, 3rd Floor
                 Van Nuys, CA 91401
                 (818) 374-4699
                 FAX (818) 374-4696
                 Coverage area includes the entire San Fernando Valley north of Mulholland Drive

        ·        LADOT City-wide One-Stop Counter
                 201 N. Figueroa Street, 4th Floor
                 Los Angeles, CA 90012
                 (213) 482-7024




                                                 Page 24
                         ATTACHMENT A

                            ACRONYMS

ADA        Americans with Disabilities Act
ADT        Average Daily Traffic
AQMD       Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD)
ATCS       Adaptive Traffic Control System
ATSAC      Automated Traffic Surveillance and Control
AVR        Average Vehicle Ridership
BOE        Bureau of Engineering
CALTRANS   California Department of Transportation
CEQA       California Environmental Quality Act
CMA        Critical Movement Analysis
CMP        Congestion Management Program
CRA        Community Redevelopment Agency
DCP        Department of City Planning
DEIR       Draft Environmental Impact Report
EIR        Environmental Impact Report
ICO        Interim Control Ordinance
ITE        Institute of Transportation Engineers
LADOT      Los Angeles Department of Transportation
LACMTA     Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
LAMC       Los Angeles Municipal Code
LOS        Level of Service
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
NOP        Notice of Preparation
NTM        Neighborhood Traffic Management
SCAG       Southern California Association of Governments
TDM        Transportation Demand Management
TIA        Traffic Impact Analysis
TSM        Traffic System Management
TSP        Transportation Specific Plan
VMT        Vehicle Miles Traveled
V/C        Volume to Capacity Ratio
                       ATTACHMENT B

       LADOT REVIEW PROCESS FOR TRAFFIC STUDY
STEP
1             Preliminary discussion with Consultant/Developer
                   on project description including site plan

2                         Scoping of Traffic Study
                            with the consultant


3                 Consultant and LADOT execute an MOU
                     (fees may apply per LAMC 19.15)


4                    Consultant/Developer pays review
                       fee and submits Traffic Study


5                    LADOT prepares initial comments
                      on the traffic study, if necessary


6              Consultant submits corrections/revisions to the
                          traffic study, if necessary


7        LADOT prepares initial comments on proposed mitigation
                       measures, if necessary


8      Consultant submits corrections/revisions on proposed mitigation
         measures, if necessary, and electronic copy of traffic study


9
                    LADOT issues an assessment letter
                                                                                SECTION NO.
                           MANUAL OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES                               321

                        SUBJECT                                                 DATE    2/2003
                                         ATTACHMENT C
                                                                                DIST.        ORIGINATOR
                                          DRIVEWAY DESIGN
       Department of                                                                             10
       Transportation
                                                                                PAGE
                                                                                        1 of 13



I.       Purpose

         This Section provides the basic criteria for review of driveway designs.

         The Department of Transportation (DOT) has a broad responsibility to ensure the safe and
         efficient use of City streets. The impact on streets is influenced by the design and use of off-
         street parking and loading facilities to accept and discharge vehicles. The goal of good
         driveway design is to minimize adverse effects on street traffic.

II.      Conditions of Tracts or Other Actions

         DOT requirements of driveways, prohibitions of driveways on certain streets, limitations of
         turning movements, and other conditions are often imposed through:

         A.     Zone Changes: These requirements usually originate in DOT during the zoning review
                process and are adopted by the Council.

         B.     Conditional Uses: Hearing examiners obtain the recommendations of DOT and often
                include traffic requirements.

         C.     Tract Review: All Tract maps are subject to approval by the Advisory Agency (i.e., a
                deputy of the Director of Planning). The Advisory Agency is assisted by the Subdivision
                Committee, on which DOT is represented. The Advisory Agency frequently includes
                traffic requirements in its final determination.

         It is necessary in many cases to "clear" these traffic requirements, i.e., certify that they have
         been carried out. This is done by DOT's representative on the Subdivision Committee, who
         must approve any plans affected by such requirements.

III.     Code Requirements

         The Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) specifically requires DOT to carry out certain
         functions with relation to off-street parking facilities. The Bureau of Transportation Programs
         and Development Review of the Department serves as a review agency for driveways and
         other off-street uses through the required approval of Building Permit Applications. Relevant
         Municipal Code Sections are:

                   12.21 A-4(g)
                   12.21 A-5(e)
                   12.21 A-5(i)
                   12.21 A-5(j)
                   12.21 C-6(a)
 PAGE       DATE        SECTION   SUBJECT                                          Department of Transportation
   2          02/2003      321                  DRIVEWAY DESIGN                MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES




 See Appendix C for further information.

IV.     Definitions

        For purposes of this Section, certain terms and words are defined as follows:

        A. Arterial Highway - A street that either:

        1. Accommodates 10,000 or more vpd (vehicle trips per typical weekday), or

        2. Is designated as a Major or Secondary Highway on the City's Highways and Freeways
           Plan.

        B. Collector Street - A street that either:

        1. Accommodates more than 1500 but less than 10,000 vpd, or

        2. Is a designated Collector Street on the applicable Community Plan.

V.      Driveway Location Planning

        The basic principle of driveway location planning is to minimize possible conflicts between
        users of the parking facility and users of the abutting street system. The public interest
        requires optimum capacity of streets and highways to carry traffic with minimum potential for
        traffic accidents. The safety of pedestrians is also considered.

        This calls for the minimum number of driveways, consistent with street and lot capacity,
        located on streets with the least traffic volume, when there is a choice. Driveways should
        provide high-entry capacity from the abutting street. To determine if a facility will meet the
        desired criteria, it is necessary to check location of driveways, size of driveways, number of
        driveways, operation and design of entrances and exits, and internal circulation.

        A. Number of Driveways Along Arterial Frontage

        Driveways should not be permitted along arterial highways where the proposed development
        is:

        1. Residential, and access is possible using an alley or non-arterial street, or

        2. Industrial or commercial, and

            a. At the intersection of the arterial highway with a non-arterial street, and

            b. Access is possible along the non-arterial frontage.
    Department of Transportation     SUBJECT                               SECTION   DATE        PAGE
MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES                 DRIVEWAY DESIGN                321     02/2003     3




    Otherwise the maximum number of driveways along arterial frontage should be:

                               Maximum Number of Driveways Along Arterial Frontage
                       FRONTAGE (FEET)                             NO. OF DRIVEWAYS
                                   0 to 200                                  11
                              200+ to 400                                     2

    For every additional 400 feet of frontage, 1 additional driveway is allowed. However, for
    minimum distance between driveways see Sub-Section V.D. Exceptions may be granted by
    the Transportation Engineer in charge based on review of specific project design or capacity
    needs (see Appendix A).

    B. Location of Driveways Adjacent to Intersections

    Driveways should be located such that two-way left turn lane channelization will provide
    storage space for left-turn entry, and for refuge for left-turn exiting. Where the arterial does
    not have two-way left turn lane median channelization, the driveway should be as far from
    the intersecting street as possible.

    Driveways on arterial highways serving lots with frontages greater than 250 feet should not
    be placed within 150 feet of the adjacent street. Driveways on collector or local streets
    serving lots with frontages greater than 250 feet should not be placed within 75 feet of the
    adjacent street.

    Turning prohibitions should be considered on approvals whenever the following would occur
    and an alternate ingress/egress point is not available:

       a) Entering vehicles would need to make left-turns from the number one thorough lane of
          an arterial highway.

       b) Exiting vehicles making left-turns to an arterial highway would be required to turn
          through the queue from adjacent signalized intersections and the exiting vehicle would
          cross a left-turn lane or on an unchannelized street from within 150 of the crosswalk
          at the signal.

       c) When the proposed driveway causes a signalized T-intersection to become a left-
          jogged intersection and the proposed driveway becomes the right-jogged jog, the
          exiting driveway vehicles making left-turn movements shall be prohibited unless a new
          design for the newly-formed left-jogged intersection will signalize both jogged legs.

    Where alternate access does not exist for a proposed driveway, turn restrictions may be
    considered, as authorized by the Transportation Engineer of the appropriate district office
    of the Transportation Engineer of the Signal Systems and Research Section.

1
     Two driveways may be approved if they are to each be one-way (i.e. one ingress
     only and one egress only).
 PAGE       DATE        SECTION   SUBJECT                                        Department of Transportation
   4          02/2003      321                 DRIVEWAY DESIGN               MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES




        Modifications to channelization to make proposed driveway locations acceptable shall be
        paid for by the permittee requesting the change, prior to approval of the permit. Such
        modifications shall be approved by the Transportation Engineer of the appropriate district
        office.

        C. Driveways at Tee Intersections
        Driveways for properties at the top of a "T" intersection are to be centered within one foot of
        the prolongation of the terminating street center line. The driveway at the top of the T-
        intersection should be a Case 3 type driveway in a residential area, and a Case 4 type
        driveway in a commercial area (see attached Department of Public Works Standard Plan
        No. S-440-3). Where this is not possible, the driveway should conform to Sub-Section V.B
        (Location of Driveways Adjacent to Intersections).

        D. Distance between Driveways
        Wherever possible, two-way driveways should be separated by a minimum of 50 feet of full
        height curb to minimize conflict between vehicles using the adjoining driveways.

VI.     Driveway Design

        A. Basic Principles

        Driveways should be designed to minimize possible conflicts between users of parking
        facilities and users of abutting street systems. The design should address pedestrian
        safety, sight distance, width of the lane from which the right turns into the driveway are
        made (i.e. 12 foot curb lane requires a wider driveway), size and turning characteristics of
        vehicles using the driveway (i.e. delivery trucks require wider driveways), complexity of
        vehicular movements, density of traffic on the abutting street (traffic and street width), speed
        of vehicles on the abutting street, arrival or departure rate of vehicles using the driveway,
        and any other considerations that would affect the safety and efficient use of City streets. It
        should be recognized that driveway design recommendations may vary depending upon site
        constraints, location, and usage. Existing driveways can be approved as constructed if the
        project which has necessitated their review is of limited scope or is re-striping only.

        B. Width of Driveways

        Not withstanding existing Code requirements, the following driveway widths are
        recommended:
    Department of Transportation   SUBJECT                                               SECTION    DATE        PAGE
MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES                         DRIVEWAY DESIGN                      321      02/2003     5




                                         Recommended Widths of Driveways
                                       (W dimension of driveway apron, in feet)2

               Type of Development                          Two-Way                 One-Way
             Commercial                                       30 ft                   16 ft
             Industrial                                          30 ft                 16 ft
             Single Family Residential
                    1 or 2 car garage                            18 ft                    ­
                    3 or more car garage                         26 ft                    ­
             Multi-Family Residential
                    More than 25 spaces                          30 ft                 16 ft
                    5 to 25 spaces                               28 ft                 16 ft
                    Less than 5 spaces                           18 ft                 16 ft

    These recommended widths assume standard passenger vehicles turning right from an 18
    foot wide curb lane under typical conditions. Wider driveways may be appropriate to
    accommodate large commercial vehicles or multiple entry lanes. Shorter driveway widths
    may be considered where it may be more appropriate to use narrower driveway or field
    conditions preclude use of recommended widths.

    When larger vehicles and trucks are going to be the predominant users of a particular
    driveway, turning templates shall be utilized to develop a driveway width that can safely and
    expeditiously accommodate the prevalent type of ingress and egress traffic.




                                                                              Reservoir Distance to
                                             Drive Aisle Width                Gate/First Parking Space

     Property Line
     (after dedication)
                                                                                         Sidewalk


                                                                                     Y
     Curb Face


                      X                            W                      X




2
    See attached Department of Public Works Standard Plan No. S-440-3.
PAGE          DATE        SECTION   SUBJECT                                            Department of Transportation
  6             02/2003      321                        DRIVEWAY DESIGN            MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES




           Driveway widths (W dimension) are intended to facilitate turning movements such that
           vehicles entering and exiting do not interfere with one another. The W dimension will
           commonly be larger than the on-site aisle width. This allows vehicles to enter from or to curb
           lanes without interfering with one another or hitting the X (sloping) portion of the curb.

           C. Street-Type Driveways

           Where a large parking facility is being constructed with signalized access along an arterial
           highway, a street-type driveway (i.e. having curb returns instead of sloping sides) with full
           height curb returns approximately 25 feet in radii will be required if the expected peak
           volume exceeds 250 cars per hour or 50 trucks per hour3 or a traffic signal with normal
           signal operation is designed for the driveway. Standard driveway design may be used for
           driveways with signal flashing red operations. All new traffic signals must be warranted and
           approved by the Bureau of Traffic Management of DOT.

           D. One-Way Driveways

           One-way driveways should be permitted only if one-way-only usage is assured by:

              1. Angled parking stalls, or

              2. Other positive control (e.g. tire spikes or mechanical gate).

           E. Reservoir and Maneuvering Space

           Any entrance driveway from an arterial highway should provide reservoir space between the
           back of the sidewalk and the first parking stall.

                                              Minimum Clear Reservoir Distance (feet)

                            Total Spaces                                        Reservoir

                            Up to 100                                              20
                            101 to 300                                             40
                            More than 300                                          60

              Where more than 300 parking spaces are provided or where ticket dispensers and/or
              mechanical gates are used, the reservoir should be based upon calculated "traffic
              intensity" for each street access (see Appendices A & B). Gates or guard booths should
              be set back far enough from the back of the sidewalk to ensure that entering or exiting
              vehicles will not block sidewalk, signalized crosswalks or extend into street. The
              reservoir distance between the driveway approach limit lines and gates/or guard booths
              should provide sufficient vehicle storage space for traffic queuing during the duration of
              red indication, if the driveway is controlled by a traffic signal with normal operations.


       3
            Decisions require concurrence by Bureau of Engineering, Department of Public Works.
        Department of Transportation   SUBJECT                              SECTION   DATE        PAGE
    MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES              DRIVEWAY DESIGN                321     02/2003     7




     F. Each parking space, parking area, or loading area should be located such that vehicle
        maneuvers can be accomplished without driving onto the public right-of-way, except an
        alley.

     G. Drive-up service windows should be designed as drive-out-only facilities with adequate
        storage off-street to accommodate waiting vehicles. Reservoir space should be based
        upon calculated "traffic intensity".

VII. Internal Circulation

     LAMC Section 12.21 A-5 (j) (see Appendix C) provides authority for DOT review of the
     Internal Circulation. "All portions of a public parking area or public garage shall be
     accessible to all other portions thereof without requiring the use of any public street, unless
     the Department of Transportation determines that such use is not detrimental to the flow of
     traffic." The purpose of this section is to prevent (or control) the use of public streets for
     circulating between one part of a parking facility and another. Exceptions to this policy:

     A. Residential Parking Areas ­ Parking areas for occupants of residential buildings are not
        "public," therefore, this section is not applicable to residential parking areas. Parking
        areas for visitors to residential buildings, however, are public. LAMC (Section 12.03).

     B. Off-site Parking Facilities ­ LAMC Section 12.21 A-4(g) (see Appendix C) permits the
        provision of parking facilities within a certain distance of the building site. This provides
        that off-site parking facilities may be separated by public streets. However, each such
        facility should conform to the internal circulation test.

     C. Employee Parking ­ Some parking for industrial or commercial facilities may be assigned
        (by a note on the building plans) "for use by employees only". However, in approving an
        exception, care should be taken to ensure that parking spaces are assigned and that the
        facility is not likely to be used for parking by customers or other visitors.

     Parking stalls shall not be designed so that a vehicle is required to back out onto any public
     street or sidewalk. Parking stalls that serve two dwelling units or less with driveway access
     that is not from a major or secondary highway are exempt from this restriction. (LAMC
     Section 12.21 A-5 (i), see Appendix C)

VIII. Loading Docks
     In the review of plans for driveways or parking facilities, DOT also reviews the design, location,
     and adequacy of truck loading docks.

     Back-in or back-out loading facilities should not be permitted along arterial highways or
     collector streets. It is the policy of this Department to approve only those designs which
     entirely remove loading operations from these classification of streets.

     Back-in loading facilities may be permitted on commercially-developed local streets if off-street
     space is insufficient for truck maneuvering. These back-in loading facilities should have a
     minimum reservoir area of 45 feet back of sidewalk. If all or a portion of the back-in loading
     facility is within a building, the reservoir area should be depressed to prevent other use of the
     reservoir space.
 PAGE           DATE           SECTION     SUBJECT                                         Department of Transportation
   8              02/2003         321                  DRIVEWAY DESIGN                 MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES




                                         APPENDIX A ­ PARKING CONTROL SERVICE RATE

                                                                 Typical Service Rates Per Lane4
                                                                   Average
                                                                  Headway            Capacity
                            Type of Control                       (Sec/Veh)          (Veh/Hr)

Entering:

            Clear aisle, no control                                      3.6          1,000
            Ticket dispenser, no gate                                    5.0           720
            Time stamp and handed to driver                              8.5           425
            Coded-card operated gate                                     8.9           405
            Cashier, flat fee, no gate
             No information given                                        9.2           390
             Direction-info needed                                       14.8          250
            Ticket dispenser with gate
              Sharp turn @ approach                                      9.5           380
             Easy direct approach                                        5.5           650
            Coin-operated gate                                           20.4          175
Internal:
       Clear aisle or ramp, no parking                                   2.0          1,800
            Straight ramp w/bend @ end                                   2.2          1,650
            Circular ramp, 30´ R @ C/L                                   2.2          1,650
            Aisle with adjacent 9´ x 18´ stalls
              Inbound                                                    3.5          1,040
             Outbound                                                    8.6           420
Exiting:
            Light street congestion                                      7.2           500
            Moderate street congestion                                   9.0           400
            Coded card/token-operated gate                               9.0           400
            Cashier, flat fee with gate                                  13.4          270
            Cashier, variable fee with gate                              19.5          185
            Coin operated gate                                           20.4          175



        4
             Assumes no significant interference by pedestrians, other traffic, etc.
    Department of Transportation                                             SUBJECT                                                SECTION         DATE        PAGE
MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES                                                                    DRIVEWAY DESIGN                      321           02/2003     9




                                                                                                 APPENDIX B

                                                                                     RESERVOIR NEEDS
                                                                                   VS. TRAFFIC INTENSITY
 RESERVOIR BEHIND SERVICE POSITION


                                                            25



                                                            20
                                     (NUMBER OF VEHICLES)




                                                            15
                                                                                                      Not exceeded
                                                                                                      > 1 Peak hour in 100

                                                            10
                                                                                       Not exceeded
                                                                                       > 5 Peak hours in 100

                                                                                Average queue length
                                                            5
                                                                     Minimum


                                                            0
                                                                 0           0.2                0.4              0.6          0.8             1.0
                                                                                        TRAFFIC INTENSITY
                                                                        (PEAK-HOUR ARRIVAL RATE ­ TYPICAL SERVICE RATE)


 Assumptions:                                                        Arrivals follow a Poisson Distribution.
                                                                     Service rate can be represented by an exponential probability function.
                                                                     Flow is equally divided between each line if more than one if available.

 Notes:

                                                      1. To obtain total reservoir length, use 20 feet per vehicle + 20 feet for the service position (or 12
                                                         feet to the driver of the vehicle in the service position).
                                                      2. For peak-hour arrival rate contact City-Wide Planning Coordination Section at (213) 482-7024.
                                                      3. See Appendix A for parking control service rate.
 PAGE       DATE        SECTION   SUBJECT                                               Department of Transportation
   10         02/2003      321                     DRIVEWAY DESIGN                  MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES




                    APPENDIX C ­ LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE REFERENCES

1.      Section 12.21 A-4(g) Location of Parking Area. The automobile parking spaces required by
        paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) hereof, shall be provided either on the same lot as the use for
        which they are intended to serve or on another lot not more than 750 feet distant therefrom;
        said distance to be measured horizontally along the streets between two lots, expect that
        where the parking area is located adjacent to an alley, public walk or private easement which
        is easily useable for pedestrian travel between the parking area and the use it is to serve, the
        750-foot distance may be measured along said alley, walk or easement (Amended by Ord.
        No. 145,088, Eff. 10/20/73.)

2.      Section 12.21 A-5(e) Driveway Location. Access driveways to every parking area and garage
        shall be designated in accordance with Section 62.105.1, 62.105.2, 62.105.3 and 62.105.4 for
        this Code, and in a manner to provide the minimum practical interference with the use of
        adjacent property and with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

        Such driveways shall be located in accordance with a plan approved by the Department of
        Building and Safety in the following instances:

        a. On a lot in a "P" (including any combination with an "A" or "R" Zone) or "PB" Zone.

        b. For every parking area and garage having a capacity of more than 25 automobiles or
           trucks.

        The Department of Building and Safety shall disapprove any plan which it determines fails to
        meet the standards established by this Paragraph.

3.      Section 12.21 A-5(i) Parking stall Location. Each automobile parking stall shall be so located
        that:

        a. No automobile is required to back onto any public street or sidewalk to leave the parking
           stall, parking bay or driveway, except where such parking stalls, parking bays or driveways
           serve not more than two dwelling units and where the driveway access is to a street other
           than a major or secondary highway. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,608, Eff. 11/27/78.)

        b. Parking maneuvers can be accomplished without driving onto that portion of a required
           front yard where driveways are prohibited. Car stops or other barriers shall be provided in
           accordance with Section 12.21 A-6. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)

4.      Section 12.21 A-5(j) Internal Circulation. All portions of a public parking area or public garage
        shall be accessible to all other portions thereof without requiring the use of any public street,
        unless the Department of Transportation determines that such use is not detrimental to the
        flow of traffic. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)

5.      Section 12.21 C-6(a) Loading Space. A loading space shall be provided and maintained on
        the same lot with every hospital, hotel, or institution building. A loading space shall be
        provided and maintained on the same lot with every building in the "C" or "M" Zones, where
        the lot on which said building is located abuts an alley, provided that when the lot is occupied
        by a use, such as a service station or drive-in business, in which the building covers less than
    Department of Transportation   SUBJECT                                  SECTION    DATE         PAGE
MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES              DRIVEWAY DESIGN                    321      02/2003      11




 the total buildable area, a suitable loading space must be provided, but it need not comply with
 all the provisions of this section if its location, size and means of access are approved by the
 Department of Building and Safety.

 EXCEPTION: No loading space shall be required on a lot that abuts an alley in the "C" or "M"
 Zones when all the buildings are erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained and
 used solely as dwellings or apartment houses and the total number of dwelling units on the lot
 does not exceed 20. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)
PAGE   DATE        SECTION   SUBJECT                         Department of Transportation
  12     02/2003      321              DRIVEWAY DESIGN   MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES
    Department of Transportation   SUBJECT                     SECTION   DATE        PAGE
MANUAL OF POLICIES & PROCEDURES              DRIVEWAY DESIGN       321     02/2003     13
ATTACHMENT D
                        STANDARD STREET CONDITIONS

 1.    City Council may, by ordinan ce, adopt specific standards for ind ividual
       streets which differ from these official standard street dimensions.
       Commun ity Plans should be reviewed for designation of Pede strian
       Priority Street Segments of arterial streets which would requ ire wid er
       sidewa lk s than those indicat ed on th is Standard Plan .

 2.    Sidewalk widths for non-arterial stre ets shall be the mi nimum shown
       hereon . Greater widths, up to ful l width between c ur b and property line,
       with tree wells , shall be required where commercial and multiple residential
       frontage, schools , areas of heavy pede strian traffi c or other s pec ia l
       circumstances indicate the need.

 3.    Except for special conditions or as otherwise provided, sidewalk shall
       be placed as close to the property line as possible.

 4.    Where sid ewalk is construct ed adjacent to the curb it shall have a
       m inim um width of 10 feet inclus ive of curb thickness except for
       hillside st reets, noncontinuous local streets and industrial streets .

 5.    Where sidewalk is constructed on the fill or low side of a hills ide
       street , a berm may be required on private property .

 6.    Easements may be required in addition to the widths shown hereon,
       where necessary for the installation of public utilities or for widened
       sidewalks (minimum 15-foot width) adjacent to tran sit stations .

 7.    Fifty-foot curb rad ii (instead of the standard 35' curb radii) shall be
       provided for cu l-de -sacs in industrial areas.

 8.    Private street development should conform to the standard public street
       dimensions shown on this sheet , where appropriate . Variations m ay
       be approved on a case -by-cas e basis .

 9.    For intersections of streets the following dedications shall apply:
         a. Intersections of arterial streets with any other street: 15 'x15'
             cut corner OR 20' curved corner radius .
         b. Intersections of non-arterial and/or hillside streets : 1O'x1 0' cut
             corner OR 15 ' curved corner radius .

10 .   Hillside Collector Streets . In hillside areas whe re topography or other
       environmental considerations, documented to the satisfaction of t he City
       Engineer, would render full street improvements infeasible , the roadway
       width of the hills ide collector street may be reduced to no less than
       32 feet, provided that parking is limited to one side o nly.




STANDARD PLAN NO.          S-470-0                     VAULT INDEX NUt.lBERB-4428   SHEET 2 OF 2 SHEETS
                                                   ATTACHMENT E

                  TRAFFIC STUDY - MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)

This MOU acknowledges that the traffic study for the following project will be prepared in accordance
with the latest version of LADOT's Traffic Study Policies and Procedures:

Project Name:
Project Address:
Project Description:


Geographic Distribution: N             % S           %     E       %       W         %
Attach graphic illustrating project trip distribution percentages at the studied intersections

Trip Generation Rate(s): ITE 8th Edition / Other
Attach trip generation table with a description of the proposed land uses, ITE rates, estimated
morning and afternoon peak hour volumes (ins/outs/totals), proposed trip credits, etc.

                                         in        out          total
                   AM Trips
                   PM Trips

Project Buildout Year:                         Ambient or CMP Growth Rate:                      % Per Yr.
Related Projects:      (to be researched by the consultant and approved by LADOT)

Study Intersections
(Subject to LADOT revision after initial impact analysis)


 1.                                                                6.

 2.                                                                7.

 3.                                                                8.

 4.                                                                9.

 5.                                                                10.


Trip Credits:      (Exact amount of credit subject to approval by LADOT)

                                                                         Yes        No

 Transit Usage

 Transportation Demand Management

 Existing Active Land Use

 Previous Land Use

 Internal Trip

 Pass-By Trip

                            Consultant                                   Developer
Name
Address
Phone No.

Approved by:
                     Consultant's Representative         Date            LADOT Representative   Date
                                      ATTACHMENT F

                          TRAFFIC STUDY MAPS AND FIGURES

The traffic study should include the following maps unless otherwise specified during the
scoping process:

1.     Area map showing Project location.

2.     Area map showing location of related projects (table should be included indicating
       location, size, name, description and trip generation of each related project).

3.     Site map showing study intersections and distance of the Project driveway(s) from the
       adjacent intersections. Include location and identification of all major buildings,
       driveways, parking areas and loading docks of the Project.

4.     Map(s) showing the "existing" (specify base year) traffic volumes for both the a.m. and
       p.m. peak hours at the study intersections and the average daily traffic (ADT) on any
       analyzed street segments.

5.     Map(s) showing future traffic volumes with ambient growth without Project at the study
       intersections and street segments. This map should specify the future year used in the
       impact analysis and should be based on the expected date of project buildout. The
       future year identified in this step shall remain consistent for all other maps described
       below that illustrate future traffic projections.

6.     Map(s) showing traffic generated by the related projects only. Use separate map for
       similar land uses (e.g. retail, office, residential, industrial/manufacturing) with similar trip
       distribution patterns (as they affect the study intersections and freeway locations).

7.     Map(s) showing total future "cumulative base" traffic volumes without Project at the study
       intersections, freeway locations and street segments (add steps 5 and 6).

8.     Map(s) showing Project trip distribution percentages (inbound and outbound) at the
       study intersections, freeway locations and project driveway(s). This map must be
       pre-approved by LADOT and included in the MOU.

9.     Map(s) showing estimated Project-only traffic volumes at the study intersections, Project
       driveway(s), freeway locations and street segments.

10.    Map(s) showing total existing traffic volumes with Project at the study intersections,
       project driveway(s), freeway locations and street segments (add steps 4 and 9).

11.    Map(s) showing total future traffic volumes with Project at the study intersections, project
       driveway(s), freeway locations and street segments (add steps 7 and 9).

12.    Map showing existing and projected transit lines.
                                   ATTACHMENT G
                                   ATTACHMENT F

                              Traffic Study Checklist
The following checklist highlights key requirements that are critical to LADOT's review of
the traffic study in addition to the requirements listed in the Traffic Study Policies and
Procedures. To avoid any delays in the review process, please provide the following:

t     Hard copy and PDF electronic copy of the traffic study

t     Legible site plan showing driveway locations, loading/unloading area, and any
      proposed highway dedication and widening

t     Traffic study review fee

t     Conceptual drawings of the proposed mitigation measures in hard copy and PDF
      electronic copy

t     Traffic volumes counts in LADOT format

t     City Planning Case Number (if applicable)

t     Existing-use documentation (i.e., certificate of occupancy, lease agreements,
      utility bills, etc.)

t     Traffic signal warrant sheets (if applicable)

t     Traffic study shall be stamped by a Registered Traffic Engineer




 LADOT Use Only

 "Deemed Complete" by: _____________________            Date: __________________
                                                                   ATTACHMENT
                                                                   ATTACHMENT H
                                                                              G
                       City Of Los Angeles
                       Department Of Transportation
                       MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South            BROADWAY

East/West              75TH ST

Day:        MONDAY                      Date:       JULY 16, 2007           Weather:          SUNNY

Hours:      7-10AM 2-5PM

School Day:            YES              District:          CENTRAL            I/S CODE 1451


                        N/B                          S/B                      E/B                     W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                  101                         139                          3                     6
BIKES                      0                          11                          0                     0
BUSES                      0                          98                          0                     0


                        N/B TIME                     S/B TIME                 E/B TIME                W/B TIME

AM PK 15 MIN             329     7.15                168    7.45                  5    8.00            28    7.15

PM PK 15 MIN             174     2.15                273    4.45               12      2.15            56    2.30

AM PK HOUR              1230     7.15                625    7.15               14      7.15           106    7.15

PM PK HOUR               609     2.00               1002    4.00               33      2.00           111    2.15



NORTHBOUND Approach                                        SOUTHBOUND Approach                              TOTAL   XING S/L    XING N/L

Hours         Lt     Th          Rt Total                  Hours      Lt     Th        Rt Total              N-S     Ped Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8                7 1056         94 1157                  7-8         47     550       11   608             1765     63 25        0     0
8-9                4 806          63   873                 8-9         32     459        5   496             1369     30   8       2     0
9-10               2 529          10   541                 9-10        10     374        4   388              929      4   0       1     0
2-3                9 518          82   609                 2-3         33     679       12   724             1333     89 40        0     0
3-4                5 448          19   472                 3-4         30     816       16   862             1334     12   4       4     0
4-5                8 514          21   543                 4-5         20     973        9 1002              1545     16   0       5     0

TOTAL          35 3871           289      4195             TOTAL      172 3851          57     4080          8275    214   77     12    0


EASTBOUND Approach                                         WESTBOUND Approach                               TOTAL   XING W/L    XING E/L

Hours         Lt        Th       Rt Total                  Hours      Lt     Th        Rt Total             E-W      Ped Sch     Ped   Sch
7-8                1         2    10     13                7-8         43         4     54   101              114     70 39       45     2
8-9                2         2     4      8                8-9         32         2     34     68              76     46 11       35     1
9-10               6         0     7     13                9-10        18         1     19     38              51     30   3      12     0
2-3                6         5    22     33                2-3         42         5     60   107              140    103 100      74    25
3-4                6         6    10     22                3-4         34         2     27     63              85     63 18       38     7
4-5                9         4     9     22                4-5         32         5     27     64              86     48 11       32     0

TOTAL          30         19      62        111            TOTAL      201      19      221      441           552    360 182     236   35

            (Rev Oct 06)
                               ATTACHMENT I
                               ATTACHMENT H

                     LADOT POLICY ON PASS-BY TRIPS
PASS-BY TRIP
 DISCOUNT
   RATE                              LAND USE CATEGORY
               Shopping Center 600,000 sf or more, Quality Restaurant, Specialty
    10%        Retail, Furniture Store, Medical Office, Day Care, Theater/Cinema,
               Auto Sales/Repair
    15%        Discount Club, Discount Store
               Shopping Center 300,000 to less than 600,000 sf, Bank/Savings &
    20%        Loan, High Turnover Restaurant, Car Wash, Hardware/Lumber Store,
               Garden Center, Recreation/Health Club
               Shopping Center 100,000 to less than 300,000 sf, Auto Parts,
    30%
               Music/Video Store
               Shopping Center 50,000 to less than 100,000 sf, Supermarket,
    40%
               Drugstore, Bookstore
               Shopping Center less than 50,000, Fast Food Restaurant,
    50%        Gasoline/Service Station, Convenience Market, Flower/Bakery/Yogurt
               Shop, Dry Cleaner, Liquor Store
ATTCHMENT
 ATTACHMENT J I
         ATTACHMENT K J
        ATTACHMENT

Physical Improvements - Sample
                                        ATTACHMENT
                                        ATTACHMENT KL

     TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND TRIP REDUCTION MEASURES
              (LAMC Section 12.26-J - amended by Ordinance 168,700)


1.   DEFINITIONS
     For the purpose of this section, certain words and terms are defined as follows:

     Carpool. A vehicle carrying two to five persons to and from work on a regular schedule.
     Development. The construction of new non-residential floor area.
     Gross Floor Area. That area in square feet confined within the outside surface of the exterior
     walls of a building, as calculated by adding the total square footage of each of the floors in the
     building, except for that square footage devoted to vehicle parking and necessary interior
     driveways and ramps.
     Preferential Parking. Parking spaces, designated or assigned through use of a sign or painted
     space markings for Carpools or Vanpools, that are provided in a location more convenient to the
     entrance for the place of employment than parking spaces provided for single-occupant vehicles.
     Transportation Demand Management (TDM). The alteration of travel behavior through
     programs of incentives, services, and policies, including encouraging the use of alternatives to
     single-occupant vehicles such as public transit, cycling, walking, carpooling/vanpooling and
     changes in work schedule that move trips out of the peak period or eliminate them altogether
     (as in the case in telecommuting or compressed work weeks).
     Trip Reduction. Reduction in the number of work-related trips made by single-occupant
     vehicles.
     Vanpool. A vehicle carrying six or more persons to and from work on a regular schedule, and
     on a prepaid basis.
     Vehicle. Any motorized form of transportation, including but not limited to automobiles, vans,
     buses and motorcycles.

2.   APPLICABILITY
     This subdivision applies only to the construction of new non-residential gross floor area. Prior
     to the issuance of a building permit, the owner/applicant shall agree, by way of a covenant that
     runs with the land, to provide and maintain in a state of good repair the following applicable
     transportation demand management and trip reduction measures.

3.   REQUIREMENTS
     (a)  Development in excess of 25,000 square feet of gross floor area. The owner shall
          provide a bulletin board, display case, or kiosk (displaying transportation information)
          where the greatest number of employees are likely to see it. The transportation
          information displayed should include, but is not limited to, the following:
          (1)    Current routes and schedules for public transit serving the site;
          (2)    Telephone numbers for referrals on transportation information including numbers
                 for the regional ridesharing agency and local transit operations;
          (3)    Ridesharing promotion material supplied by commuter-oriented organizations;
          (4)    Regional/local bicycle route and facility information;
          (5)    A listing of on-site services or facilities which are available for carpoolers,
                 vanpoolers, bicyclists, and transit riders.
Attachment K                                                                               Page 2 of 3

       (b)     Development in excess of 50,000 square feet of gross floor area. The owner shall
               comply with Paragraph (a) above and in addition shall provide:
               (1)   A designated parking area for employee carpools and vanpools as close as
                     practical to the main pedestrian entrance(s) of the building(s). This area shall
                     include at least ten percent of the parking spaces required for the site. The
                     spaces shall be signed and striped sufficient to meet the employee demand for
                     such spaces. The carpool/vanpool parking area shall be identified on the
                     driveway and circulation plan upon application for a building permit;
               (2)   One permanent, clearly identified (signed and striped) carpool/vanpool parking
                     space for the first 50,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area and one
                     additional permanent, clearly identified (signed and striped) carpool/vanpool
                     parking space for any development over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area;
               (3)   Parking spaces clearly identified (signed and striped) shall be provided in the
                     designated carpool/vanpool parking area at any time during the building's
                     occupancy sufficient to meet employee demand for such spaces. Absent such
                     demand, parking spaces within the designated carpool/vanpool parking area may
                     be used by other vehicles;
               (4)   No signed and striped parking spaces for carpool/vanpool parking shall displace
                     any handicapped parking;
               (5)   A statement that preferential carpool/vanpool spaces are available on-site and
                     a description of the method for obtaining permission to use such spaces shall be
                     included on the required transportation information board;
               (6)   A minimum vertical clearance of 7 feet 2 inches shall be provided for all parking
                     spaces and access ways used by vanpool vehicles when located within a parking
                     structure;
               (7)   Bicycle parking shall be provided in conformance with Section 12.21A16 of this
                     Code.

       c)      Development in excess of 100,000 square feet of gross floor area. The owner shall
               comply with Paragraphs (a) and (b) above and shall provide:
               (1)   A safe and convenient area in which carpool/vanpool vehicles may load and
                     unload passengers other than in their assigned parking area;
               (2)    Sidewalks or other designated pathways following direct and safe routes from
                     the external pedestrian circulation system to each building in the development;
               (3)   If determined necessary by the City to mitigate the project impact, bus stop
                     improvements shall be provided. The City will consult with the local bus service
                     providers in determining appropriate improvements. When locating bus stops
                     and/or planning building entrances, entrances shall be designed to provide safe
                     and efficient access to nearby transit stations/stops;
               (4)   Safe and convenient access from the external circulation system to bicycle
                     parking facilities on-site.

4.     EXCEPTIONS
       The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to developments for which an application has
       been deemed complete by the City pursuant to Government Code Section 65943, or for which
       a Notice of Preparation for a Draft Environmental Impact Report has been
       circulated or for which plans sufficient for a complete plan check were accepted by the
       Department of Building and Safety, on or before the effective date of this ordinance
       (03/31/1993).
Attachment K                                                                                  Page 3 of 3

5.     MONITORING
       The Department of Transportation shall be responsible for monitoring the owner/applicant's
       continual implementation and maintenance of the project trip reduction features required by this
       ordinance.

6.     ENFORCEMENT
       Applicants shall execute and record a Covenant and Agreement that the trip reduction features
       required by this ordinance will be maintained, that required material specified in Subdivision 3
       (a) (1)-(5) will be continually posted, and that additional carpool/vanpool spaces within the
       designated preferential area will be signed and striped for the use of ridesharing employees
       based on demand for such spaces. The Covenant and Agreement shall be acceptable to the
       Department of Transportation.

7.     HARDSHIP EXEMPTION
       In cases of extreme hardship, duly established to its satisfaction, the City Council, acting in its
       legislative capacity, and by resolution, may grant an exemption from any/or all the provisions of
       this ordinance. In granting such an exemption, the City Council shall make the following
       findings:

               (a)    Specific features of the development make it infeasible to satisfy all of the
                      provisions of this subsection; and
               (b)    The applicant has committed to provide equivalent alternative measures to
                      reduce vehicle trips.
ATTACHMENT M
ATTACHMENT M
