                                ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST FORM

1.          Project Title: Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)

2.          Lead Agency Name and Address:

            Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD)
            333 South Beaudry Avenue
            Los Angeles, California 90017

3.          Contact Person and Phone Number:

            Yi Hwa Kim, Interim Director, Office of Environmental Health and Safety
            (213) 241-3199

4.          Project Location:

            2570 West 11th Street
            Los Angeles, California 90006

5.          Project Sponsor's Name and Address:

            YPI Charter Schools, Inc.
            c/o Pacific Charter School Development
            Hope Fang
            811 West 7th Street, Suite 310
            Los Angeles, California 90017

6.          General Plan Designation:

            Public Facilities (PF)

7.          Zoning:

            PF

8.          Description of the project:

            The project site is located approximately 2 miles west of downtown Los Angeles at
            1157 S. Berendo Street in the City of Los Angeles. (Figure 1, Regional Location).
            Regional access to the project site is provided from the north by US 101 (Hollywood
            Freeway), from the east by Interstate 110, and from the south by Interstate 10 (Santa
            Monica Freeway). The project site is bound by Berendo Street to the east, the Berendo
            Middle School campus and 12th Street to the south, the Berendo Middle School campus
            and single- and multi-family homes to the west, and 11th Street to the north.
            The surrounding neighborhood generally consists of single- and multi-family homes,


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                1                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                         August 2014
                                                                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration



            while commercial businesses are located along Pico Boulevard one block south of the
            site, Olympic Boulevard one block north, and Vermont Avenue two blocks east of the
            project site. Figure 2, Project Site and Surrounding Uses, illustrates the project site
            location and the adjacent uses.

            Site Background and Existing Conditions

            The proposed project to be developed by YPI Charter Schools is situated on the
            northeast portion of the LAUSD Berendo Middle School. Established in 1911, Berendo
            Middle School continues to operate on its original site. The single-track public school
            currently serves approximately 1,200 students in grades 6 through 8.

            Berendo Middle School is a rectangular-shaped parcel. As both Berendo Street and
            Kenmore Avenue slope down towards 11th Street, the difference in elevation from the
            southern to northern boundary of the existing school site is up to 20 feet. To maintain a
            level campus, the school was constructed on a series of terraces that were created by cut
            and fill grading and are buttressed by internal and external retaining walls that reach
            heights of approximately 20 feet along the northwest corner of the school. Several
            buildings, including a gym, portable classroom buildings, cafeteria, classrooms and
            auditorium, two staff parking lots, volleyball and handball courts, basketball courts, and
            a lower and upper athletic field make up the Berendo Middle School campus. The
            campus’ main entrance is through Crusader Hall, located at the southeast corner of the
            existing site. The site is not located within the designated boundaries of an oil field, nor
            are any active or abandoned oil wells identified on the site.1

            The Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) has been operating on Berendo’s
            Middle School campus since the beginning of the 2011 school year. Approximately 339
            6th, 7th, and 8th graders are currently accommodated in classrooms and bungalow
            classrooms throughout the Berendo campus.2 The project site is composed of one
            restroom building, a bungalow building with two classrooms, basketball courts, a
            surface parking lot, and several small trees. The existing student drop off and pick-up
            area for both MORCS and Berendo Middle School is located along Berendo Street just
            north of the campus main entrance. Two staff parking lots exist on the middle school
            campus. The northeast parking lot is accessible via Berendo Street, while the main
            parking lot is accessible via 12th Street.




1     2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E (Appendix C)
2     2014 Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    2                            Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                     August 2014
                                              Project
                                                Site




           1.16      0.58          0   1.16

    n          APPROXIMATE SCALE IN MILES
SOURCE: Google, Inc., April 2014

                                                                   FIGURE   1
                                                        Regional Location
1107.003•04/14
                                                             Residential



                                                                           Monsenor Oscar Romero
                                                                              Charter School
                                                                             Construction Area




              Residential
                                                                       Bungalow Classrooms         Residential
                                                                          to be Removed




                                                         Berendo Middle School

                                                             Residential




          Legend:
                            Berendo Middle School Boundary

                            Site Boundary

           326      163          0          326

   n          APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
SOURCE: Planning Center, October 2013

                                                                                                                 FIGURE   2
                                                                                  Project Site and Surrounding Uses
1107.003•08/14
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Land Use and Zoning

            The site is included in the Wilshire Community Plan and is zoned PF (public facilities).
            Under this zoning designation public elementary and secondary schools are permitted.3
            The community plan recognizes the need for additional schools to meet current and
            projected enrollment levels as all LAUSD schools within the Plan area are operating at
            or above design capacity and in need of substantial repairs and improvements.4

            The project site is also located within the federal government designated Pico-Union
            Promise Zone. Five Los Angeles neighborhoods have been identified as promise zones
            and will receive federal funds5 to “increase economic security, expand educational
            opportunities, increase access to quality, affordable housing, improve public safety, and
            create jobs.”6 Two of the five key strategies included in the City’s Promise Zone Plan are
            relevant to the proposed project and include:7

                  Ensuring all youth have access to a high-quality education, and are prepared for
                   college and careers through its Promise Neighborhoods initiative, by partnering with
                   the Youth Policy Institute and LA Unified School District to expand its Full Service
                   Community Schools model from seven schools to all 45 Promise Zone schools by
                   2019.

                  Ensuring youth and adult residents have access to high-quality career and technical
                   training opportunities that prepare them for careers in high-growth industries
                   through partnerships with career and technical training schools and the Los Angeles
                   Community College District.

            Project Characteristics

            The proposed project consists of a 1.1-acre middle school campus with three one- and
            two-story buildings, a landscaped courtyard, and underground parking, as well as the
            removal of 10 existing bungalow buildings from various locations on the Berendo MS
            campus. The proposed project would be constructed on the northeastern portion of the
            existing Berendo Middle School campus. Figure 3, Proposed Project Site Plan, shows
            the proposed footprint and layout of the proposed project. Once completed, the
            proposed project would provide an additional 66 student seats, increasing the MORCS’


3     List Number 1 of Uses Permitted in Various                      Zones   in   the    City     of    Los      Angeles,
      http://cityplanning.lacity.org/Code_Studies/Misc/uselist1.pdf
4     Wilshire Community Plan, p.III-16
5     Federal funds will be granted in the form of assistance and competitive advantages when applying for federal
      loans and grants
6     The Wall Street Journal’s Capital Bureau, Washington Wire, What is the Promise Zone, January 9, 2014
      http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2014/01/09/what-is-a-promise-zone/
7     Office of the Press Secretary, Fact Sheet, President Obama’s Promise Zones Initiative, City of Los Angeles,
      http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2014/01/08/fact-sheet-president-obama-s-promise-zones-initiative

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                      5                             Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                        August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            capacity to 405 students. The existing site is composed of two small bungalow buildings
            (two classrooms used as offices and a bathroom building), asphalt pavement, surface
            parking, chain link fence, and a few small trees. All existing uses will be removed to
            accommodate the proposed project. In addition, eight bungalow buildings containing
            14 classrooms will be removed from various locations on the Berendo campus as part of
            the project. The proposed project would result in the construction of 16 classrooms in
            one new building on the project site. As such, the proposed project represents no net
            increase in classrooms and 66 students on the Berendo Campus. The proposed project
            also includes a multi-purpose building and administration building. A site plan is
            provided in Figure 4, Proposed Project Illustrative Plan, which includes the proposed
            project’s features.

            School Buildings

            The three buildings totaling about 37,000 square feet would consist of an administration
            building, a multipurpose building with small kitchen and a two-story classroom
            building that would accommodate 16 classrooms. The buildings will be configured in a
            courtyard formation to optimize supervision and sight lines from the administration
            building and all other programmed spaces on the campus. The two-story classroom
            building will be L-shaped along the south and east sides of the site. It will surround a
            large courtyard to provide natural light and air to the interiors. The classrooms,
            equipped with LAUSD standard technology, are designed for multi-wall teaching and
            envisioned with flexible furniture from group and individual teaching.

            The administration and multi-purpose spaces would be located to the north in separate
            one-story buildings. The multi-purpose room will support student gatherings,
            community events, and indoor eating as necessary. A covered exterior lunch shelter is
            contiguous to the multi-purpose room.

            Access and Circulation

            The project site access for student drop-off and pick-up operations has been planned to
            minimize potential vehicular queuing on the local street system and conflicts with the
            existing Berendo Middle School drop-off and pick-up operations, as well as to address
            safety issues associated with the MORCS student drop-off and pick-up operations.

            A separate curbed vehicular drop off and pick up lane was not viable due to the existing
            street and sidewalk widths. The proposed project’s vehicle queueing area along 11th
            Street will be approximately 250 feet long and accommodate 13 vehicles. As shown in
            Figure 5, MORCS Student Drop Off and Pick-Up Area, the vehicle queueing area will
            extend west of the parking garage entrance, however students will not be permitted to
            enter/exit vehicles until the vehicle has entered the designated student drop-off/pick-up
            area east of the parking garage entrance. Further, the existing red curb located at the
            intersection of Berendo Street and 11th Street (along 11th Street) will remain in place and
            provide sight lines for pedestrians and drivers.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                6                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                  MORCS campus




                                                Berendo Middle School campus

           128        64          0       128

   n          APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
SOURCE: Planning Center, April 2014

                                                                                              FIGURE   3
                                                                           Proposed Project Site Plan
1107.003•05/14
                                                                                                                W 11TH                    STREET
                                           SECURED BIKE & SKATEBOARD PARKING:
                                           325 STUDENTS x 5% = 16 EACH
                                           SEE AS101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                       WH                                                                     C100
                                                                                                                          MULTI-PURPOSE              CUSTODIAN
                                                                                                                               B101                     B102
                                                                                                                             2122 SF                   42 SF
                                                                                                                                                     FOOD SERVERY
                                                                                                                                                         B105
                                                                                                                                                        280 SF           ACCESSIBLE
                                                        VEHICULAR                                                                                                        D.F.                                               6TH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CLASSROOM
                                                          RAMP                                                                                                                                                                 C101
                                    BIKE &                  TO                                          DN
                                 SKATEBOARD           UNDERGROUND
                                   PARKING               PARKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STREET
                                                                                  UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                             OFFICE    OFFICE   OFFICE
                                LAN ROOM      A105      A104     A103
                                    A106     104 SF    104 SF   104 SF                                                                                                                                                     6TH GRADE
                                  149 SF                                  RECEPTIONIST/   WAITING                                                                                                                          CLASSROOM
                              ELEC/ASFR/                                 OFFICE MANAGER     A101                                                                                                                              C102
                             ROOF ACCESS                                       A102        148 SF
                                 A107                                         214 SF
                                                                                          TOILET
                                 65 SF                                             NURSE A114
                                                      RECORDS ROOM                  A113 59 SF
                                KITCHEN       STORAGE     A116                      70 SF
                                                              WORKROOM
                                                          88 SF
                                  A108          A117            A115
                                  73 SF        176 SF                            ADMINISTRATORS/
                                                                91 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S BERENDO
                                                                                   DIRECTORS                                                                                                       ACCESSIBLE
                                               SCHOOL                                  A112                                                                                                        D.F. (SAME
                               UNISEX                           CONFERENCE
                                              DISCIPLINE                              245 SF                                                                                                       LOCATION @
                                A109                                A111
                                                 A110                                                                                                                                              2ND FLOOR)                FLEXIBLE
                                59 SF                              237 SF
                                                147 SF                                                                                                                                                                      CLASSROOM               BACKFLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C103                 PREVENTER




                                                ACCESSIBLE
                                                D.F.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FDC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                      GIRLS'
                                                                                                                                                                                  BOYS' RESTROOM    RESTROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                        C109           C108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELEV. MACH. RM        CUST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C106             C104

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIGNAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C105
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DN



                                                                                    UP                                                                                                                                       WOMEN'S TOILET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C110


                                                                                                    7TH GRADE        7TH GRADE               7TH GRADE              7TH GRADE                 7TH GRADE          FACULTY      MEN'S TOILET
                                                                                                    CLASSROOM        CLASSROOM               CLASSROOM              CLASSROOM                 CLASSROOM         WORKROOM         C111
                                                                                                       C117             C116                    C115                   C114                      C113              C112



                                                                                     DN




                                                                                                                FIRE ACCESS & SERVICE DRIVEWAY
           32        16          0                              32

   n            APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
SOURCE: Planning Center, June 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIGURE   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Proposed Project Illustrative Plan
1107.003•07/14
                                                                                                              W 11TH   STREET



                                                                                                                 WH
                                                                                                                                                            D




                                                                                                                                                                STREET
                                                                                                                                                                S BERENDO
    Legend:
                13 Vehicle Queueing Area

                Student Drop-Off/Pick-Up Area

                Parking Garage Entrance


           32         16          0                      32

   n            APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
SOURCE: Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter Schools (MORCS), prepared by KOA Corporation

                                                                                                                                                         FIGURE     5
                                                                                                                        MORCS Student Drop Off and Pick-Up Area
1107.003•07/14
                                                                             Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The proposed project’s main school entry, including the student drop off and pick-up
            area, will be located along 11th Street, separate from the Berendo Middle School student
            drop off and pick-up zone which is located at Berendo Ave and 12th Street. Access to the
            school campus is provided by a stairway and elevator from 11th Street up to the campus
            level. Passenger cars will drive eastbound on 11th Street and drop off and pick up
            students along a dedicated curbside area in front of the school entrance. Signage will be
            provided to prohibit parking in the drop-off area along 11th Street during pickup and
            drop-off times. In addition, signage will identify the drop-off/pick-up zone east of the
            parking garage entrance, as well as prohibit drivers from blocking the parking garage
            entrance.

            The underground parking garage will be 17,000 square feet. The entrance to the
            underground parking structure will be located along 11th Street, west of the main
            entrance. The underground parking will be secured with key card access and gates.
            School staff accessing the parking garage in the mornings will arrive earlier than
            students, which will minimize conflicts between student pedestrians and cars entering
            the parking. Similarly, after the end of the school day, staff will be departing the parking
            garage after the main student pick-up period. The parking driveway has open areas at
            the approach to 11th Street where sight lines down each sidewalk are provided, in order
            to prevent potential for hazardous pedestrian safety conditions. In addition, parabolic
            mirrors at the entrance to the underground parking shall be installed if feasible for better
            visibility of approaching pedestrians.

            The Safety Valet Program will improve student safety during drop off and pick up
            times, as well as provide more fluid movement of vehicular traffic within the vicinity of
            the school site. The program is designed so parents will not have to park or exit their
            vehicle when dropping off their children. Instead, school volunteers will set up traffic
            cones in the designated drop off and pick up area, where parent vehicles line up. As the
            vehicles enter the designated area, parent or student volunteers, or valets, approach the
            stopped vehicles and assist the students in exiting. The parent then drives off as the
            student is directed onto campus.8 The drop off and pick-up area is discussed further in
            the Section XVI Transportation and Traffic, below.

            Recreation/Landscaping

            A large courtyard with landscaping and concrete and wood bench seating will be
            located in the center of the campus providing students with an area to play. A basketball
            court will be located in the southwestern corner of the campus.

            Tall narrow shade shrubs or vines are proposed in the planters along 11 th Street to
            discourage graffiti. In addition, the proposed project includes planting areas throughout


8     LAUSD Office of Environmental Health & Safety, Safety Alert, Safety Valet Program, http://www.lausd-
      oehs.org/docs/SafetyAlerts/11-04.pdf, accessed July 14, 2014

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                10                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                               August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            the project site including around the lunch shelter and in the classroom courtyards to
            provide shade.

            Surrounding Land Uses and Setting:

            The project site is located in an urban area with a mix of residential and commercial land
            uses. The area is heavily populated with small single-family residences and two three-
            story multi-family units. Immediately west of Berendo Middle School are single-family
            and multi-family residences. The residences’ front yards face Kenmore Avenue with
            their back yards along the Berendo’s property line. Similar residential uses are located
            south of the middle school and continue for one block until Pico Boulevard. Pico
            Boulevard is a well-traveled arterial road that supports a variety of small businesses,
            including restaurants, markets, and beauty salons.

            Vermont Avenue, another heavily traveled corridor, is located two blocks east of the
            project site. Residential uses form a two-block buffer between Berendo Middle School
            and the commercial businesses located along Vermont Avenue. The Los Angeles Police
            Department’s Olympic Station is located at the northeast corner of Vermont Avenue and
            11th Street.

            Directly north of the project site along 11th Street, single- and multi-family residences
            exist. Olympic Boulevard is located one block north of the project site and offers similar
            retail and commercial businesses found along Pico Boulevard and Vermont Avenue.

            The following uses surround the project site:

                  North: Single-family residences are located north of the site, across West 11th Street.

                  East: Single-family residences are located east of the Site, across South Berendo
                   Street.

                  South: The main campus for Berendo Middle School borders the site to the south.
                   School facilities in close proximity to the site include Classroom Building #1, the
                   Lunch Pavilion, an Instructional Garden area, and the Physical Education Building.
                   West 12th Street borders the middle school campus to the south, beyond which are
                   single-family residences and a church.

                  West: Additional asphalt-covered play courts for Berendo Middle School border the
                   site to the west. Beyond the play courts lie single-family residences that front South
                   Kenmore Avenue.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   11                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



9.          Other public agencies whose approval is required (e.g., permits, financing approval, or
            participation agreement):

                  State of California Department of Toxic Substances Control (Determination of
                   “No Further Action”)

                  State Allocation Board (Approval of Funding)

                  Department of Education – School Facilities Planning Division (Approval of Final
                   Site and Final Plans, and Approval of Transmission Setback Exemption)

                  Department of General Services – Office of Public School Construction (Approval of
                   Funding)

                  Division of the State Architect (Approval of Construction Plans)

                  Department of Transportation (Approval of Memorandum of Understanding [MOU]
                   and Traffic Impact Analysis/Pedestrian Safety Study)

                  Fire Department (Plan Approval for Emergency Access)

                  Department of Public Works, Bureau of Engineering (Off-Site Improvements Permit
                   or “B-Permit”)

10.         Other reviewing agencies may include, but are not limited to:

                  South Coast Air Quality Management District

                  Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board

11.         Primary sources referenced in the preparation of this Initial Study:

                  Converse Consultants, Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, 2014.

                  The Planning Center/DC&E, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, 2013.

                  KOA Corporation, Traffic Impact Study, 2014.

                  RK Engineering Group, Traffic Impact Study, 2013.

                  Aspen Environmental Group, LAUSD New Construction Program EIR, 2003

                  City of Los Angeles, General Plan

                  South Coast Air Quality Management District, CEQA Air Quality Handbook, 1993.

                  South Coast Air Quality Management District, Final Localized Significance Threshold
                   Methodology, 2008

                  DKA Planning, Acoustical Analysis, 2014.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  12                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                  Mitigated Negative Declaration



ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED:

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project,
involving at least one impact that is a “Potentially Significant Impact” as indicated by the
checklist on the following pages.

         Aesthetics                  Agriculture Resources              Air Quality
         Biological Resources        Cultural Resources                 Geology and Soils
         Hazards and Hazardous       Hydrology and Water                Land Use and Planning
         Materials                   Quality
         Mineral Resources           Noise                              Population and
                                                                        Housing
         Public Services             Recreation                         Transportation and
                                                                        Traffic
         Utilities and Service       Mandatory Findings of
         Systems                     Significance




Impact Sciences, Inc.                        13                      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                    August 2014
                                                                                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration



DETERMINATION (TO BE COMPLETED BY THE LEAD AGENCY):

On the basis of this initial evaluation:

        I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment, and a NEGATIVE
        DECLARATION will be prepared.
        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment, there will not be a significant
        effect in this case because revisions in the project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED
        NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
        I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
        REPORT is required.
        I find that the proposed project MAY have a “potentially significant” or “potentially significant unless mitigated” impact on
        the environment, but at least one effect (1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal
        standards, and (2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis as described on attached sheets.
        An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.
        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment, because all potentially significant
        effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards,
        and (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION, including revisions or
        mitigation measures that are imposed upon the proposed project, nothing further is required.




Signature                                                               Date

Yi Hwa Kim                                                              LAUSD
Printed Name                                                            For




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                              14                                  Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                      August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS:

1)          A brief explanation is required for all answers except “No Impact” answers that are
            adequately supported by the information sources a lead agency cites in the parentheses
            following each question. A “No Impact” answer is adequately supported if the
            referenced information sources show that the impact simply does not apply to projects
            like the one involved (e.g., the project falls outside a fault rupture zone). A “No Impact”
            answer should be explained where it is based on project-specific factors as well as
            general standards (e.g., the project will not expose sensitive receptors to pollutants,
            based on a project-specific screening analysis).
2)          All answers must take account of the whole action involved, including off-site as well as
            on-site, cumulative as well as project-level, indirect as well as direct, and construction as
            well as operational impacts.
3)          Once the lead agency has determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then
            the checklist answers must indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less
            than significant with mitigation, or less than significant. “Potentially Significant Impact”
            is appropriate if there is substantial evidence that an effect is significant. If there are one
            or more “Potentially Significant Impact” entries when the determination is made, an EIR
            is required.
4)          “Negative Declaration: Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated” applies
            where the incorporation of mitigation measures has reduced an effect from “Potentially
            Significant Impact” to a “Less than Significant Impact.” The lead agency must describe
            the mitigation measures, and briefly explain how they reduce the effect to a less than
            significant level (mitigation measures from Section XVII, “Earlier Analyses,” may be
            cross-referenced).
5)          Earlier analyses may be used where, pursuant to the tiering, program EIR, or other
            CEQA process, an effect has been adequately analyzed in an earlier EIR or negative
            declaration. Section 15063(c)(3)(D). In this case, a brief discussion should identify the
            following:
            a)      Earlier Analyses Used. Identify and state where they are available for review.
            b)      Impacts Adequately Addressed. Identify which effects from the above checklist
                    were within the scope of and adequately analyzed in an earlier document
                    pursuant to applicable legal standards, and state whether such effects were
                    addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis.
            c)      Mitigation Measures. For effects that are “Less than Significant with Mitigation
                    Measures Incorporated,” describe the mitigation measures which were
                    incorporated or refined from the earlier document and the extent to which they
                    address site-specific conditions for the project.
6)          Lead agencies are encouraged to incorporate into the checklist references to information
            sources for potential impacts (e.g., general plans, zoning ordinances). Reference to a
            previously prepared or outside document should, where appropriate, include a
            reference to the page or pages where the statement is substantiated.
7)          Supporting Information Sources. A source list should be attached and other sources
            used or individuals contacted should be cited in the discussion.
8)          This is only a suggested form, and lead agencies are free to use different formats;
            however, lead agencies should normally address the questions from this checklist that
            are relevant to a project's environmental effects in whatever format is selected.
9)          The explanation of each issue should identify:
            a)      the significance criteria or threshold, if any, used to evaluate each question; and
            b)      the mitigation measure identified, if any, to reduce the impact to less than
                    significance.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 15                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                               Less Than
                                                                               Significant
                                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant    Mitigation      Significant         No
                               Issues:                            Impact      Incorporated       Impact          Impact
I.          AESTHETICS. Would the project:
            a)          Have a substantial adverse
                        effect on a scenic vista?
            b)          Substantially damage scenic
                        resources, including, but not
                        limited to, tress, rock
                        outcroppings, and historic
                        buildings within a state scenic
                        highway?
            c)          Substantially degrade the
                        existing visual character or
                        quality of the site and its
                        surroundings?
            d)          Create a new source of
                        substantial light or glare which
                        would adversely affect day or
                        nighttime views in the area?


Responses:

            a)     No impact. The proposed project is located in the City of Los Angeles, in a highly
            urbanized portion of the City approximately 2 miles west of downtown Los Angeles.
            The nearest scenic view or vista to the project site are the Hollywood Hills,
            approximately 8.1 miles north of the project site. Due to the relatively flat topography
            and the density of development in the project area, views of the Hollywood Hills are
            available only intermittently, although close to downtown Los Angeles, views of the
            downtown skyline are not generally visible due to intervening structures.

            Although the proposed project could change existing views by added new structures,
            scenic views are typically defined as those that provide expansive views of a highly
            valued landscape for the benefit of the general public. The views available along
            developed corridors such as 11th Street and Berendo Street are generally expected to be
            intermittent and would continue to be so with implementation of the proposed project.
            Therefore, the proposed project would not block or otherwise impede and existing view
            of a scenic vista. Impacts would be less than significant and no further analysis is
            required.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                      16                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                     August 2014
                                                                         Mitigated Negative Declaration



            b)      No impact. No highways or roads adjacent to or near the project site are
            designated as scenic, according to the Transportation Element of the City of Los Angeles
            General Plan.9 The nearest roadway identified in the Wilshire Community Plan as a
            scenic highway is the segment of Highland Avenue from Rosewood Avenue to Wilshire
            Boulevard, 3.3 miles west of the project site.10 Moreover, the project site does not lie
            within the viewshed of a state-designated scenic highway.11 Therefore, no impacts
            would occur and no further analysis is required.12

            c)          Less than Significant Impact.

            Visual Character

            Buildout of the proposed project would change the existing visual character of the
            project site. The proposed project would be constructed on the northern portion of the
            existing Berendo Middle School campus which is shared with the existing MORCS
            campus. Existing uses on the 1.1-acre project site consist of one restroom building, a
            bungalow building with two classrooms, basketball courts, a surface parking lot, and
            several small trees.

            The proposed project would involve the removal of the existing uses to accommodate
            the proposed project. In addition, 10 bungalow buildings will be removed from various
            locations on the Berendo Middle School campus as part of the project. The site plan is
            provided above in Figure 4. The MORCS campus would consist of three one- and two-
            story buildings (totaling approximately 37,000 square feet), a landscaped courtyard, an
            underground parking structure, and a basketball court. The primary facilities would
            include an administration building, a multipurpose building with a small kitchen and
            lunch shelter, and a classroom building. The structures would be configured in a
            courtyard formation.

            The project site is currently in use as an operating school and would be located on the
            existing Berendo Middle School campus. The design of the buildings would consist of
            simple materials and a color palette consistent with the surrounding neighborhood
            which is generally comprised of one and two story homes to the north, west, and south,
            and multi-family residential uses to the east along Berendo Street. The Los Angeles
            Unified School District does not have specific criteria for determining visual character
            conflicts but recognizes that schools are generally compatible with the residential and



9  City of Los Angeles, “Transportation Element,” General Plan, 1999, Map E.
10 City of Los Angeles, “Transportation Element,” General Plan, 1999, Map E.
11 California Scenic Highway Mapping System, Los Angeles County, http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/LandArch/
   scenic_highways/
12 California Scenic Highway Mapping System, Los Angeles County, http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/LandArch/
      scenic_highways/, 2013.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   17                  Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                           August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



            commercial neighborhoods in which they are sited.13 Factors that can be used to
            evaluate an adverse change in visual character or degradation include:

                  Incompatibility with surrounding uses, structures, or intensity of development
                  Removal of significant amounts of vegetation
                  Loss of important open space
                  Substantial alteration of natural character
                  Lack of adequate landscaping
                  Extensive grading visible from public areas

            Regarding the criteria above, as the proposed project is an infill project located in an
            urban area on an existing school site, removal of significant amounts of vegetation, and
            substantial alteration of natural character would not be applicable. Therefore, this
            analysis focuses on the potential for incompatibility with surrounding uses, loss of
            important open space, lack of adequate landscaping, and extensive grading.

            Elevations demonstrating the overall design of the project are shown in Figure 6,
            Building Elevations. The proposed project would primarily be visible along 11th Street
            and along the west boundary of the site. Above the street level, the multi-purpose
            room’s north façade would be comprised of a translucent building material, thereby
            distinguishing the proposed project’s main entry. The roofline of the buildings will vary,
            with the tallest point being approximately 29 feet.

            The determination of impacts evaluates two potential effects. First, would the project
            degrade the visual character of the site and second, would the project degrade the visual
            character of the surrounding area. As described above, the proposed project would be
            well designed with architectural features and compatible color scheme. The proposed
            project would replace the existing modular classrooms. While the change on the site
            would be substantial, it would not degrade the quality of the site due to the features
            described above.

            The second part of the analysis relates to the potential for the proposed project to
            degrade the surrounding area. This analysis relies on the criteria above, specifically
            would the project be incompatible with surrounding uses, lack adequate landscaping,
            result in the loss of open space, or result in substantial grading within public view.

            Visual incompatibility with surrounding uses would occur if the proposed project were
            out of scale, character, or otherwise visually inconsistent with surrounding uses.
            The nearby uses along 11th Street and Berendo Street are generally single- and multi-
            family homes designed in a variety of styles. The proposed uses would be consistent


13 Los Angeles Unified School District, New School Construction Program EIR


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   18                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



            with the surroundings and would potentially improve the visual character of the area by
            replacing the existing bungalow buildings with new modern buildings; new fencing
            would also be installed further improving the appearance of the site. Further, the
            proposed project would not represent a substantial change in proposed uses as the site
            currently operates as a school and would continue to do so with the proposed project.
            As such, the proposed project would not be visually incompatible with the surrounding
            area.

            The proposed project includes landscaping along the east and south perimeter of the
            project site. Although planting areas are limited at the sidewalk level as there is no
            existing parkway, tall narrow shade shrubs or vines are proposed along the eastern
            portion of the building. Several trees are located along the existing southern boundary of
            the project site on the Berendo Middle School Campus and would not be affected by the
            proposed project. Mature Fern Pines are located along 11th Street and would remain as
            part of the proposed project. A raised planter along 11th Street is proposed with tall
            narrow shade shrubs, or clinging vines to discourage graffiti. The interior courtyard will
            be developed with a taxon of trees set in tree wells to provide an abundance of summer
            shade, with a combination of both deciduous fall color trees selected from the LAUSD
            list of trees.14 The hardscape courtyard will also include concrete and wood seating.
            Additional planting areas will be located in several places throughout the project site
            including the screened courtyards of the individual classrooms and along the lunch
            shelter facing Berendo Street. As such, the proposed project would include adequate
            landscaping.

            The project site currently includes basketball courts which would be removed as part of
            the proposed project. However, the courts would be replaced and additional open space,
            as described in the landscaping description above would be added to the site. As such,
            the proposed project would not result in the loss of important open space.

            The proposed project will require grading approximately 9,664 cubic yards of cut and
            2,430 cubic yards of fill for the construction of the school buildings as well as the
            underground parking.15 In addition, approximately 8,680 cubic yards of material would
            be exported from the site. During the excavation, construction trucks and other
            equipment would be visible to the public as they enter and exit the site and during
            construction/excavation. Grading activities would generate an estimated 1,088 hauling
            trips over 20 days. As such, the increase in construction activity due to haul trips could
            be disruptive to nearby residential uses and a visual change in the site would be
            noticeable as construction activity occurs.


14 2012   LAUSD       Approved      Plan    List,   http://www.laschools.org/documents/download/sustainability
   %2Fwater_conservation%2FCopy_of_Updated_Plant_List_2012.pdf, April 24, 2014
15 During construction of the proposed project the project site will occupy 1.35-acres however upon completion of
      the proposed project the campus will be 1.1-acres. The additional acreage needed during construction is due to
      construction activities associated with the parking garage.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    19                             Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                       August 2014
SOURCE: gkk works, October 2013

                                              FIGURE   6
                                  Building Elevations
1107.003•08/14
                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The construction contractor would be responsible for screening the site from view with
            temporary fencing or other means, to reduce visual intrusion on the neighborhood.
            While the hauling truck trips would result in a change in the visual character
            surrounding the neighborhood, these activities would be temporary and end once the
            grading and associated activities are complete. Further, although nearby residential uses
            would be temporarily affected, no private views would be impacted. As such, the
            proposed project would not result in excessive or unnecessary grading within public
            view. Additional construction related impacts are evaluated in Sections III Air Quality,
            XII Noise, and XVI Traffic.

            Therefore, impacts to the existing visual character or quality of the site and its
            surroundings would be less than significant. No further analysis on this topic is
            required.

            d)      Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated. The project site is located
            in an urban environment already characterized by high levels of ambient nighttime
            illumination. Berendo Middle School and MORCS, located on the project site, provide
            on-site lighting for the existing play courts and buildings during evening hours.
            The proposed project would not introduce substantial new non-site lighting compared
            to existing conditions as the project site is currently in use as a school and requires
            nighttime lighting. Further, the use of occupancy sensors indoors and in corridors and
            the use of daylight saving controls and timers outside will minimize excessive light
            sources. While the majority of the lighting would be directed towards the interior of the
            project site, the implementation of Mitigation Measures AES-1 and AES-2 would
            ensure that any new light sources would not impact nearby residential uses.

            Glare is the result of sunlight reflected off expanses of highly reflective surfaces. The
            intensity of glare and reflectivity will depend on the types of building materials used in
            construction and the ultimate design of the approved project. The proposed project
            includes translucent building materials which will be used to create a “light box” along
            the multi-purpose room’s north façade allowing increased light on the interior of the
            building, as required with Mitigation Measure AES-2, the exterior of the light box
            would be designed with non-reflective materials. As the proposed building materials are
            non-reflective, the proposed project is not expected to create unusual or isolated glare
            impacts. In addition, the proposed project would utilize low-reflectivity glass on the
            exterior surface, including the light box, and non-reflective exterior building materials in
            the building design, which would minimize the potential for glare reflection. Therefore,
            impacts associated with illumination and glare would be less than significant after
            implementation of Mitigation Measures AES-1 and AES-2. No further analysis is
            necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                21                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                  Mitigated Negative Declaration



Mitigation Measures
The following mitigation measures are required to reduce potential lighting impacts to a level
that is less than significant.

AES-1                   Outdoor lighting shall be designed and installed with downcast shielding to
                        reduce light impacts on adjacent properties. YPI/PCSD shall reduce the lighting
                        intensity from the proposed project on adjacent residences to no more than
                        2 foot-candles, measured at the residential property line. To achieve this result,
                        YPI/PCSD may use hoods, filtering louvers, glare shields, and/or landscaping as
                        may be necessary to achieve the standard. Lamp enclosure and poles shall also
                        be painted to reduce reflection.

AES-2                   YPI/PCSD shall utilize non-reflective building materials in the construction of the
                        proposed project.


                                                                              Less Than
                                                                              Significant
                                                               Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                               Significant    Mitigation      Significant         No
                               Issues:                           Impact      Incorporated       Impact          Impact
II.         AGRICULTURE RESOURCES. In
            determining whether impacts to
            agricultural resources are significant
            environmental effects, lead agencies
            may refer to the California
            Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site
            Assessment Model (1997) prepared by
            the California Dept. of Conservation
            as an optional model to use in
            assessing impacts on agriculture and
            farmland. Would the project:
            a)          Convert Prime Farmland,
                        Unique Farmland, or Farmland
                        of Statewide Importance
                        (Farmland), as shown on the
                        maps prepared pursuant to the
                        Farmland Mapping and
                        Monitoring Program of the
                        California Resources Agency, to
                        non-agricultural use?
            b)          Conflict with existing zoning for
                        agricultural use, or a
                        Williamson Act contract?


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                     22                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                    August 2014
                                                                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                               Less Than
                                                                               Significant
                                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant    Mitigation      Significant         No
                               Issues:                            Impact      Incorporated       Impact          Impact
            c)          Involve other changes in the
                        existing environment which,
                        due to their location or nature,
                        could result in conversion of
                        Farmland, to non-agricultural
                        use?


Responses:

            a)     No impact. The California Department of Conservation, Division of Land
            Protection, lists Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, and Farmland of Statewide
            Importance under the general category of “Important Farmland.” The Extent of
            Important Farmland Map Coverage maintained by the Division of Land Protection
            indicates that the project site is not included in the Important Farmland category.16
            The project site is located within an urbanized area of the City of Los Angeles and is
            currently developed as an existing school. No impact on farmland or agricultural
            resources would occur. No further analysis is required.

            b-c)    No impact. The project site is located in the Central Planning Commission Area,
            within the Wilshire Community Plan. The Wilshire Community Plan designation and
            zoning for the project site is PF (Public Facilities). Berendo Middle School and MORCS
            currently operate on the project site. No agricultural use is permitted within these
            zoning designations and no conversion of Farmland would result from the proposed
            project.17 Therefore, the proposed project would have no impact on agricultural zoning,
            Williamson Act contracts, and/or conversion of Farmland. No impact would occur and
            no further analysis is required.




16 State of California Department of Conservation, Division of Land Resource Protection, Farmland Mapping and
   Monitoring Program, Los Angeles County Important Farmland Map, 2010, Map.
17 City of Los Angeles Planning Department, Zone Information and Map Access System (ZIMAS)
   http://zimas.lacity.org/

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                      23                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                     August 2014
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                                                                Less Than
                                                                                Significant
                                                                 Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                 Significant    Mitigation      Significant         No
                               Issues:                             Impact      Incorporated       Impact          Impact
III.        AIR QUALITY. Where available, the
            significance criteria established by the
            applicable air quality management or
            air pollution control district may be
            relied upon to make the following
            determinations. Would the project:
            a)          Conflict with or obstruct
                        implementation of the
                        SCAQMD or Congestion
                        Management Plan?
            b)          Violate any air quality standard
                        or contribute substantially to an
                        existing or projected air quality
                        violation?
            c)          Result in a cumulatively
                        considerable net increase of any
                        criteria pollutant for which the
                        project region is nonattainment
                        under an applicable federal or
                        state ambient air quality
                        standard (including releasing
                        emissions which exceed
                        quantitative thresholds for
                        ozone precursors)?
            d)          Expose sensitive receptors to
                        substantial pollutant
                        concentrations?
            e)          Create objectionable odors
                        affecting a substantial number
                        of people?


The proposed project is located in Los Angeles County, which is included in the South Coast
Air Basin (SoCAB). The South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) has
jurisdiction over air quality within the SoCAB. The SCAQMD California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA) Air Quality Handbook and related guidelines provide thresholds for assessing the
significance of criteria air pollutants from construction and operation. Exceedance of the

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                       24                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                      August 2014
                                                                                                   Mitigated Negative Declaration



SCAQMD thresholds could result in a potentially significant air quality impact. Therefore, the
proposed project would result in a potentially significant impact to air quality if it would:

     Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable air quality plan;

     Generate total criteria pollutant emissions during construction or operation (direct and
      indirect) in excess of the thresholds given in Table 1, SCAQMD Regional Emissions
      Significance Thresholds;

     Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations:

           Exceed the localized significance thresholds given in Table 2, SCAQMD Localized
            Significance Thresholds;

           Cause or contribute to the formation of CO Hotspots; and/or

           Result in an incremental increase in cancer risk greater than or equal to 10 in 1 million, a
            cancer burden greater than 0.5 excess cancer cases (in areas where the incremental
            increase in risk is greater than 1 in 1 million), and/or a Hazard Index (HI) (non-
            cancerous) greater than or equal to 1.

     Expose sensitive receptors to objectionable odors affecting a substantial number of people.

If the project exceeds the regional emissions significance thresholds shown in Table 1, the
project would also result in a cumulatively considerable contribution to air quality impacts and
would be considered cumulatively significant even if it conforms to the applicable Air Quality
Management Plan.


                                                  Table 1
                                SCAQMD Regional Emissions Significance Thresholds

                                                                          Pollutant (pounds per day)
                        Phase                   VOC             NOX            CO          SOX                   PM10            PM2.5
 Construction                                     75             100            550             150                150              55
 Operational                                      55             55             550             150                150              55

 Source: South Coast Air Quality Management District, Air Quality Significance Thresholds, (2011).
 VOC = volatile organic compounds; NOx = oxides of nitrogen; CO = carbon monoxide; SOx = sulfur oxides.
 PM10 = respirable particulate matter; PM2.5 = fine particulate matter.




The localized significance thresholds are shown in Table 2. These thresholds are based on
screening tables provided by the SCAQMD. The screening tables provide the maximum
allowable daily emissions that would satisfy the thresholds without project-specific dispersion

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                             25                                      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                         August 2014
                                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



modeling. Values are based on the Source Receptor Area (SRA) within which the project site is
located, the size of the project area, and the distance to the nearest sensitive receptor.
The project is located in SRA 2, is approximately 1.1 acres, and is within 25 meters of the nearest
sensitive receptors. The nearest sensitive receptors are the residences located to the east and
north of the site, and the school adjacent to the southern boundary of the site. Thus, a significant
impact would occur during construction or operation if on-site emissions exceed the thresholds
shown below.



                                                  Table 2
                                   SCAQMD Localized Significance Thresholds

                                                                               Pollutant (pounds per day)1
          Localized Significance Threshold                    NOX                  CO            PM10                     PM2.5
    Construction                                               147                 827                   6                    4
    Operational                                                147                 827                   2                    1


    Source: South Coast Air Quality Management District, Final Localized Significance Threshold Methodology, (2008), Appendix C.
    1 The NOX LST thresholds contained in the SCAQMD lookup tables are based on emissions of NO X from construction of the Project and

      assume gradual conversion to oxides of nitrogen (NO2) based on the distance from the Project site boundary.




Responses:

            a)     Less than Significant Impact. According to the SCAQMD CEQA Air Quality
            Handbook, a project would have a significant impact if it conflicts with or delays
            implementation of the applicable air quality management plan (AQMP). A project is
            consistent with the AQMP if it meets the following indicators:

                   1. The project will not result in an increase in the frequency or severity of existing
                      air quality violations or cause or contribute to new violations, or delay the timely
                      attainment of air quality standards or the interim emissions reductions specified
                      in the AQMP.

                   2. The project will not exceed the assumptions in the AQMP in 2016 or increments
                      based on the year of project buildout.

            As discussed later in this section, the proposed project would not exceed the significance
            thresholds for construction or operational emissions. In addition, the project would not
            exceed the screening criteria for the localized significance thresholds. Therefore, since
            the project would not exceed the thresholds, it would not increase the frequency or
            severity of existing air quality violations or cause or contribute to new violations, or
            delay the timely attainment of air quality standards or the interim emissions reductions



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                26                                 Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                       August 2014
                                                                                  Mitigated Negative Declaration



            specified in the AQMP. Accordingly, the proposed project complies with the first
            consistency criterion.

            Consistency with the assumptions in the AQMP is established by demonstrating that the
            project is consistent with the land use plan that was used to generate the growth
            forecast. The 2012 Air Quality Management Plan based its assumptions on growth
            forecasts contained in the Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG) 2012
            Regional Transportation Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS).18 The 2012
            RTP/SCS is based on growth assumptions through 2035 developed by each of the cities
            and counties in the SCAG region. The proposed project is the expansion of existing
            charter school operations at the same location. The total growth associated with the
            proposed project would consist of 66 new students, as well as 37,000 square feet of
            buildings to support this growth. The existing school has an enrollment of
            approximately 339 students. This is a very minor change in school operations in the
            context of the air basin and local or regional governments, and a General Plan
            amendment would not be required. Therefore, the proposed project is considered to be
            consistent with growth assumptions included in the AQMP. Accordingly, the proposed
            project complies with the second consistency criterion. No impact would occur and no
            further analysis is required.

            b)          Less than Significant Impact.

            Construction

            Construction operations would result in emissions of air pollutants. These emissions
            were primarily modeled using CalEEMod, a land use and construction model used to
            calculate emissions generated from construction and operation of new development
            projects. Project-specific data was used where available. Where Project specific
            information was not available, model default values provided by CalEEMod were used.
            Construction of the Project was estimated to take place over roughly a year and a half
            beginning in July 2015 and continuing through November 2016.

            Estimated maximum air pollutant emission rates for construction activities in the SoCAB
            are shown in Table 3, Estimated Project Construction Emissions – South Coast Air
            Basin. Emission rates for respirable particulate matter (PM10) and fine particulate
            matter (PM2.5) include both vehicle exhaust and fugitive dust emissions. Values for
            PM10 and PM2.5 reflect the practice of watering the construction area as recommended
            by the SCAQMD.




18 South Coast Air Quality Management District, Final 2012 Air Quality Management Plan, 2012.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   27                           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                    August 2014
                                                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                     Table 3
                        Estimated Project Construction Emissions – South Coast Air Basin

                                                                      Maximum Emissions in Pounds per Day
         Construction Year                     VOC               NOX               CO                SOX            PM10             PM2.5
2015                                             5.19            38.91             26.76             0.06              4.32             2.63
2016                                            39.60            23.53             18.29             0.03              1.80             1.58
SCAQMD Threshold:                               75              100               550               150              150               55
Exceeds Threshold?                              NO               NO                NO                NO              NO                NO

Source: Impact Sciences, Inc. Emissions calculations are provided in Appendix A.
Totals in table may not appear to add exactly due to rounding in the computer model calculations.



            As shown in Table 3, above, the proposed project would not exceed any of the
            SCAQMD significance thresholds for air quality emissions during construction, impacts
            would be less than significant, and no mitigation is required.

            The project will be required to implement dust control measures consistent with
            SCAQMD Rule 403 (Fugitive Dust) during the construction phases of new project
            development. The following actions are currently recommended to implement Rule 403
            and have been quantified by the SCAQMD as being able to reduce dust generation
            between 30 and 85 percent depending on the dust generation source:

                  Apply water and/or approved nontoxic chemical soil stabilizers according to
                   manufacturer’s specification to all inactive construction areas (previously graded
                   areas that have been inactive for 10 or more days).

                  Replace ground cover in disturbed areas as quickly as possible

                  Enclose, cover, water twice daily, or apply approved chemical soil binders to
                   exposed piles with 5 percent or greater silt content.

                  Water active grading sites at least twice daily during construction activities.

                  Suspend all excavating and grading operations when wind speeds (as instantaneous
                   gusts) exceed 25 miles per hour over a 30-minute period.

                  All trucks hauling dirt, sand, soil, or other loose materials are to be covered or
                   should maintain at least 2 feet of freeboard (i.e., minimum vertical distance between
                   top of the load and the top of the trailer), in accordance with Section 23114 of the
                   California Vehicle Code/

                  Sweep streets at the end of the day if visible soil material is carried over to adjacent
                   roads.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                  28                                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                            August 2014
                                                                                                      Mitigated Negative Declaration



                  Install wheel washers or gravel construction entrances where vehicles enter and exit
                   unpaved roads onto paved roads, or wash off trucks and any equipment leaving the
                   sites each trip.

                  Post and enforce traffic speed limits of 15 miles per hour or less on all unpaved
                   roads.

            Implementation of SCAQMD Rule 403 would further reduce impacts, which are shown
            in Table 3 to be less than significant. Therefore, impacts during project construction
            would be less than significant and no mitigation is required.

            Operation. Operation of the proposed project would result in emissions of air pollutants
            as well, which were also modeled using CalEEMod. Default values provided by
            CalEEMod were used for operation of the project. Table 4, Estimated Operational
            Emissions – Proposed Project, identifies the maximum daily emissions for each
            pollutant during project operation.



                                                   Table 4
                              Estimated Operational Emissions – Proposed Project

                                                                            Emissions in Pounds per Day
                Emissions Source                  VOC             NOX            CO          SOX        PM10                      PM2.5
 Summertime Emissions1
     Area and Energy Sources                         0.90          0.10            0.09            0.00               0.01               0.01
     Mobile Sources                                  0.39          1.16            4.69            0.01               0.84               0.23
     Summertime Totals                               1.29          1.26            4.78            0.01               0.85               0.24
 SCAQMD Thresholds                                    55              55           550             150                150                 55
 Exceeds Threshold?                                 NO            NO               NO              NO              NO               NO
 Wintertime Emissions2
     Area Sources                                     0.90           0.10            0.09          0.00               0.01               0.01
     Mobile Sources                                   0.40           1.22            4.58          0.01               0.84               0.23
     Wintertime Totals                                1.30           1.32            4.67          0.01               0.85               0.24
 SCAQMD Thresholds                                    55              55           550             150                150                 55
 Exceeds Threshold?                                 NO            NO               NO              NO              NO               NO


 Source: Impact Sciences, Inc. Emissions calculations are provided in Appendix A.
 Totals in table may not appear to add exactly due to rounding in the computer model calculations.
 1 “Summertime Emissions” are representative of the conditions that may occur during the ozone season (May 1 to October 31).

 2 “Wintertime Emissions” are representative of the conditions that may occur during the balance of the year (November 1 to April 30).




            As shown above in Table 4, unmitigated operational emissions associated with the day-
            to-day activities of the proposed project would not exceed any of the operational
            thresholds of significance.



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                29                                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                          August 2014
                                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Localized emissions were calculated assuming a project site approximately 2 acres in
            size with sensitive receptors within 25 meters of the project boundary. Localized
            emissions consist only of emissions originating on the project site. Estimated localized
            emissions are shown in Table 5.

            As shown, localized emissions would not exceed any of the localized emissions
            thresholds. Construction emissions of PM do not include any of the standard fugitive
            dust control methods recommended by the SCAQMD for all construction projects and
            actual emissions would, therefore, be lower than shown.


                                                       Table 5
                                            Estimated Localized Emissions

                                                                            Pollutant (pounds per day)1
                   Localized Emissions                       NOX                CO            PM10                     PM2.5
    Construction                                               22                  14                   5.8                  3.6
    LST Screening Criteria                                    147                 827               6                    4
    Exceeds Threshold?                                        NO                 NO                 NO                    NO
    Operational                                                 0.10                  0.09              0.01                 0.01
    LST Screening Criteria                                    147                 827               2                    1
    Exceeds Threshold?                                        NO                 NO                 NO                    NO


    Source: Impact Sciences, Inc. Emissions calculations are provided in Appendix A.
    1 The NOX thresholds contained in the SCAQMD lookup tables are based on emissions of NO X and assume gradual conversion to NO2

      based on the distance from the Project site boundary.



            Projects that generate emissions below the regional thresholds of significance would not
            be considered to contribute a substantial amount of air pollutants. Therefore,
            construction and operational emissions would have a less than significant impact.

            Since operation of the proposed project would not result in significant net additional air
            pollutant emissions, the proposed project would not hinder, disrupt, or delay the
            implementation of any air quality control measures. The proposed project would also
            comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and recommended actions. Therefore, the
            proposed project is consistent with the applicable air quality plans. No impact would
            occur and no further analysis is required.

            c)       Less than Significant Impact. The SoCAB is in nonattainment of state and
            federal standards for ozone, PM10, and PM2.5, and in non-attainment of state standards
            for NOx. Los Angeles County is also in nonattainment for lead; however, this is due to
            exceedances from a small number of facilities, the nearest of which are located in the
            cities of Industry and Vernon. Ozone is formed in the atmosphere via chemical reactions
            of reactive organic gases (ROG) and NOX in sunlight. Emissions of ROG are generated
            from combustion engines, such as those used in motor vehicles and construction

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                            30                                  Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                    August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            equipment, and from architectural coatings and the use of solvents and cleaners.
            Emissions of NOX are generated principally from combustion engines such as those used
            in motor vehicles and construction equipment. Emissions of PM10 are generated by both
            construction activities, such as grading, as well as by motor vehicles traveling over
            paved and unpaved surfaces.

            The SCAQMD CEQA Guidelines state that SCAQMD emissions thresholds were
            developed such that emissions from an individual project that exceed the threshold
            would be cumulatively considerable. As emissions from this project are below the
            threshold for all pollutants during both construction and operation, the project would
            not result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any criteria pollutant for which
            the project region is non-attainment under an applicable federal or state ambient air
            quality. As a result, no mitigation measures are required. No impact would occur and no
            further analysis is required.

            d)      Less than Significant Impact. Sensitive receptors in the project area are defined
            as residential areas adjacent to the proposed project as well as students at the existing
            Berendo Middle School campus. During construction, sensitive receptors could be
            exposed to a variety of airborne emissions including those from construction equipment.
            However, due to the limited scale and the short duration of construction, the proposed
            project would not expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations
            during construction. Additionally, the localized impacts summarized in Table 5 reflect
            work done by the SCAQMD to provide conservative screening levels for potential health
            impacts for sensitive receptors near proposed projects. That is, the thresholds shown in
            Table 5 are considered by the SCAQMD to be minimum levels at which it is possible
            health impacts might occur given worst-case conditions for receptors within 25 meters of
            a 2-acre project in the project area. Emissions below those levels would not cause
            impacts to sensitive receptors, including students, even in worst-case conditions. The
            emissions shown in Table 5 for NOx and CO are well below the thresholds. Emissions of
            PM10 and PM2.5 are also below the thresholds even though they do not include any
            basic dust control measures, such as those recommended by the SCAQMD for
            construction projects. SCAQMD Rule 403 provides for basic dust control at all
            construction sites, including watering during demolition and grading. Rule 403 would
            be followed at all times during construction, thus significantly reducing dust and other
            air pollutant generation at the project site. Consequently, actual emissions of PM10 and
            PM2.5 would be much lower than the values reported in Table 5.

            The proposed project would not include any sources of risk to sensitive receptors during
            operation, but would include sensitive receptors such as school staff, faculty, and
            students. The surrounding land uses are primarily residential and commercial, with no
            substantial sources of toxic air contaminants. Consequently, operation of the proposed
            project would not cause sensitive receptors to be exposed to substantial pollutant
            concentrations.



Impact Sciences, Inc.                               31                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                             Mitigated Negative Declaration



            CO Hotspots

            Motor vehicles are a primary source of pollutants within the project vicinity. Traffic
            congested roadways and intersections have the potential to generate localized high
            levels of CO. Localized areas where ambient concentrations exceed state and/or federal
            standards are termed CO “hotspots.” Such hotspots are defined as locations where the
            ambient CO concentrations exceed the state or federal ambient air quality standards. CO
            is produced in greatest quantities from vehicle combustion and is usually concentrated
            at or near ground level because it does not readily disperse into the atmosphere. As a
            result, potential air quality impacts to sensitive receptors are assessed through an
            analysis of localized CO concentrations. Areas of vehicle congestion have the potential
            to create CO hotspots that exceed the state ambient air quality 1-hour standard of
            20 ppm or the 8-hour standard of 9.0 ppm. The federal levels are less stringent than the
            state standards and are based on 1- and 8-hour standards of 35 and 9 ppm, respectively.
            Thus, an exceedance condition would occur based on the state standards prior to
            exceedance of the federal standard.

            The project was evaluated to determine if it would cause a CO hotspot utilizing a
            simplified CALINE4 screening model developed by the Bay Area Air Quality
            Management District (BAAQMD). The simplified model is intended as a screening
            analysis that identifies a potential CO hotspot. If a hotspot is identified, the complete
            CALINE4 model is then utilized to determine precisely the CO concentrations predicted
            at the intersections in question. This methodology assumes worst-case conditions
            (i.e., wind direction is parallel to the primary roadway and 90 degrees to the secondary
            road, wind speed of less than 1 meter per second and extreme atmospheric stability) and
            provides a screening of maximum, worst-case, CO concentrations. This method is
            acceptable to the SCAQMD as long as it is used consistently with the BAAQMD
            Guidelines. This model is utilized to predict future CO concentrations 0 and 25 feet from
            the intersections in the study area based on projected traffic volumes from the
            intersections contained in the project traffic study.19 Intersections operating at level of
            service (LOS) between A through D are determined to not have the potential to create a
            CO Hotspot and are therefore not included in the analysis. Intersections operating at an
            LOS of E or F are considered have to have the potential to create a CO hotspot. Post-
            project maximum future CO concentrations were calculated for peak-hour traffic
            volumes for both am and pm peak hours. The results of these CO concentration
            calculations are presented in Table 6, Carbon Monoxide Concentrations – With
            Cumulative and Project Traffic, to present the worst-case scenario the determination of
            significance is based on representative receptors located 0 feet from the intersection.
            Receptors 25 feet from an intersection would experience lower concentrations and




19 KOA Corporation. Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS), Los Angeles, CA.
   January 2014.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                               32                          Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                               August 2014
                                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            therefore were not calculated. Only one of intersections included in the traffic study was
            estimated to experience an LOS of E or F under cumulative plus project conditions.



                                               Table 6
                  Carbon Monoxide Concentrations – With Cumulative and Project Traffic

                                                                                         AM         PM
                                     Intersection                                      1-Hour     1-Hour            8-Hour
        Vermont Avenue and Olympic Blvd                                                    4.0      4.1                2.9
        Exceeds state 1-hour standard of 20 ppm?                                           NO       NO                 —
        Exceeds federal 1-hour standard of 35 ppm?                                         NO       NO                 —
        Exceeds state 8-hour standard of 9.0 ppm?                                          —         —                NO
        Exceeds federal 8-hour standard of 9 ppm?                                          —         —                NO

        Source: Impact Sciences, Inc. Emissions calculations are provided in Appendix A.



            As shown, the CALINE4 screening procedure predicts that, under worst-case
            conditions, future CO concentrations at the intersection would not exceed the state
            1-hour and 8-hour standards with the operation of the proposed project. No significant
            CO hotspot impacts would occur to sensitive receptors in the vicinity of the intersection.
            As a result, no significant project-related impacts would occur relative to future carbon
            monoxide concentrations. The impact would be less than significant, and no further
            analysis is required.

            e)      No Impact. Land uses primarily associated with odorous emissions include
            waste transfer and recycling stations, wastewater treatment plants, landfills, composting
            operations, petroleum operations, food and byproduct processes, factories, and
            agricultural activities, such as livestock operations. The proposed project does not
            include any of these types of land uses. In addition, the proposed project would not be
            sited near any of these recognized sources of odors. Therefore, the project would have
            no impact with respect to odors. As a result, no impact would occur, no further analysis
            is required, and no mitigation measures are required.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                33                             Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
IV.         BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES. Would the
            project:

            a)          Have a substantial adverse effect, either
                        directly or through habitat
                        modifications, on any species identified
                        as a candidate, sensitive, or special
                        status species in local or regional plans,
                        policies, or regulations, or by the
                        California Department of Fish and
                        Wildlife or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
                        Service?

            b)          Have a substantial adverse effect on
                        any riparian habitat or other sensitive
                        natural community identified in local
                        or regional plans, policies, regulations
                        or by the California Department of Fish
                        and Wildlife or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
                        Service?

            c)          Have a substantial adverse effect on
                        federally protected wetlands as defined
                        by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act
                        (including, but not limited to, marsh,
                        vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct
                        removal, filling, hydrological
                        interruption, or other means?

            d)          Interfere substantially with the
                        movement of any native resident or
                        migratory fish or wildlife species or
                        with established native resident or
                        migratory wildlife corridors, or impede
                        the use of native wildlife nursery sites?

            e)          Conflict with any local policies or
                        ordinances protecting biological
                        resources, such as a tree preservation
                        policy or ordinance (e.g., oak trees or
                        California walnut woodlands)?

            f)          Conflict with the provisions of an
                        adopted Habitat Conservation Plan,
                        Natural Community Conservation
                        Plan, or other approved local, regional,
                        or state habitat conservation plan?




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               34                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



Responses:

            a-d & f)        No Impact. The project site is located in an urban area of the City of Los
            Angeles. Berendo Middle School and MORCS currently operate on the project site.
            No threatened, endangered, or rare species or their habitats, locally designated species,
            locally designated natural communities, riparian or wetland habitats, or wildlife
            corridors exist on this site. The site is not within an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan,
            Natural Community Conservation Plan, or similar plan. The site is neither within nor
            proximate to any Significant Ecological Area, Land Trust, or Conservation Plan.20
            No impact would occur and no further analysis is needed.

            e)     No Impact. The proposed project would include the removal of three trees from
            the project site. The City of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 96.303.5, defines
            protected trees as:

                        Any of the following Southern California native tree species, which measures
                        four inches or more in cumulative diameter, four and one-half feet above the
                        ground level at the base of the tree:

                           Oak tree including Valley Oak (Quercus lobata) and California Live Oak
                            (Quercus agrifolia), or any other tree of the oak genus indigenous to
                            California but excluding the Scrub Oak (Quercus dumosa).

                           Southern California Black Walnut (Juglans californica var. californica)

                           Western Sycamore (Platanus racemosa)

                           California Bay (Umbellularia californica)

            None of the trees to be removed from the project site are protected trees as defined
            above. No impact would occur and no further analysis is required.




20 2014 Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E (Appendix C)


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                      35                          Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                      August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
V.          CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the project:

            a)          Cause a substantial adverse change in
                        the significance of a historical resource
                        as defined in § 15064.5?

            b)          Cause a substantial adverse change in
                        the significance of an archaeological
                        resource pursuant to § 15064.5?

            c)          Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
                        paleontological resource or site or
                        unique geologic feature?

            d)          Disturb any human remains, including
                        those interred outside of formal
                        cemeteries?


Responses:

            a)       No Impact. A project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the
            significance of a historical resource is a project that may have a significant effect on the
            environment.21 Section 15064.5 of the State CEQA Guidelines defines a historical resource
            as (1) a resource listed in or determined to be eligible by the State Historical Resources
            Commission, for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources; (2) a resource
            listed in a local register of historical resources or identified as significant in an historical
            resource survey meeting certain state guidelines; or (3) an object, building, structure,
            site, area, place, record or manuscript that a lead agency determines to be significant in
            the architectural, engineering, scientific, economic, agricultural, educational, social,
            political, military, or cultural annals of California, provided that the lead agency’s
            determination is supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole record. Berendo
            Middle School and MORCS currently operate on the project site. No known historic
            resources exist on the project site.22 The project site is not located in a City of Los
            Angeles Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and does not contain any site, building, or
            structure listed as a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument (HCM).23 The proposed
            project would require the removal of 10 bungalows from the site. The bungalows are
            typical modular classrooms and would not be eligible historic resources. As such, no
            adverse impact to historical resources would occur, and no further analysis is necessary.

21 California Public Resources Code Section 21084.1
22 California    State    Parks,     Office    of   Historic Preservation, California Historical Resources,
   http://ohp.parks.ca.gov/ListedResources/?view=county&criteria=19
23 Los Angeles Department of City Planning, Office of Historic Resources, Designated Historic-Cultural
      Monuments http://www.preservation.lacity.org/files/HCMDatabase%23072213_0.pdf

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               36                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            b)      Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. Section 15064.5 of the State
            CEQA Guidelines defines significant archaeological resources as resources that meet the
            criteria for historical resources, as discussed above, or resources that constitute unique
            archaeological resources. The project site is located in an urbanized area of the City and
            has been subject to past subsurface disturbance associated with grading and
            foundations. It is unlikely that undisturbed unique archeological resources exist on the
            project site. However, grading activities associated with development of the proposed
            project would cause new subsurface disturbance and could result in the unanticipated
            discovery of unique archeological resources. In the event of an unexpected disturbance,
            significant impacts to archaeological resources could occur. However, implementation of
            Mitigation Measure CR-1 would reduce potentially significant impacts to a less than
            significant level. No further analysis is necessary.

            c)      Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. As discussed above, the
            project site has been previously disturbed and, therefore, it is unlikely that
            paleontological resources or unique geologic features are present in the area of the site.
            Grading on the project site would cause new subsurface disturbance and therefore,
            unanticipated discovery of unique paleontological resources is possible. With
            implementation of Mitigation Measure CR-2, the potential impacts of the proposed
            project on paleontological resources would be reduced to a less than significant level,
            and no further analysis is necessary.

            d)      Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. No formal cemetery exists
            on-site or in the vicinity of the proposed project. As the project site has been subject to
            past subsurface disturbance associated with grading and foundations, it is unlikely that
            intact human remains are present beneath the site. However, the unanticipated
            discovery of intact human remains is possible. In the event of an unexpected
            disturbance, significant impacts to archaeological resources and human remains could
            occur. However, implementation of required Mitigation Measure CR-3 would reduce
            potentially significant impacts to less than significant levels. No further analysis is
            necessary.

Mitigation Measures

The following mitigation measures are required to reduce potential impacts to cultural
resources to a level that is less than significant.

CR-1:                   In the event that archaeological resources are uncovered on the project site
                        during grading or other construction activities, the construction contractor will
                        notify the project applicant (YPI/PCSD) and LAUSD’s Office of Environmental
                        Health and Safety (OEHS) immediately and work must stop within a 100-foot
                        radius until a qualified archeologist has evaluated the find. Construction activity
                        may continue unimpeded on other portions of the project site. If the find is
                        determined by the qualified archeologist to be a unique archeological resource,


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    37                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        as defined by Section 2103.2 of the Public Resources Code, the site shall be
                        treated in accordance with the provisions of Section 21083.2 of the Public
                        Resources Code. If the find is determined not to be a unique archeological
                        resource, no further action is necessary and construction may continue.

CR-2:                   If paleontological resources are uncovered during excavation of the project site,
                        the construction contractor will notify YPI/PCSD, LAUSD’s OEHS, and the
                        Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County Vertebrate Paleontology
                        Section immediately and work must stop within 100 feet of the find to allow a
                        qualified paleontologist to appropriately remove the find.

CR-3                    If during excavation of the project site human remains are discovered, the
                        construction contractor will notify LAUSD’s OEHS immediately and the steps
                        described in State CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5(e) shall be followed.

                        (1) There shall be no further excavation or disturbance of the site or any nearby
                            area reasonably suspected to overlie adjacent human remains until:

                           (A) The coroner of the County in which the remains are discovered must be
                               contacted to determine that no investigation of the cause of death is
                               required, and

                           (B) If the coroner determines the remains to be Native American:

                               1. The coroner shall contact the Native American Heritage Commission
                                  within 24 hours.

                               2. The Native American Heritage Commission shall identify the person
                                  or persons it believes to be the most likely descended from the
                                  deceased Native American.

                               3. The most likely descendent may make recommendations to the
                                  landowner or the person responsible for the excavation work, for
                                  means of treating or disposing of, with appropriate dignity, the
                                  human remains and any associated grave goods as provided in Public
                                  Resources Code Section 5097.98, or

                        (2) Where the following conditions occur, the landowner or his authorized
                            representative shall rebury the Native American human remains and
                            associated grave goods with appropriate dignity on the property in a location
                            not subject to further subsurface disturbance. The applicant shall bear the
                            cost of implementing this mitigation.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   38                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        (A) The Native American Heritage Commission is unable to identify a most
                            likely descendent or the most likely descendent failed to make a
                            recommendation within 24 hours after being notified by the commission.

                        (B) The descendant identified fails to make a recommendation; or

                        (C) The landowner or his authorized representative rejects the
                            recommendation of the descendant, and the mediation by the Native
                            American Heritage Commission fails to provide measures acceptable to
                            the landowner.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                              39                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                            August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
VI.         GEOLOGY AND SOILS. Would the project:

            a)          Expose people or structures to potential
                        substantial adverse effects, including
                        the risk of loss, injury or death
                        involving:

            i)          Rupture of a known earthquake fault,
                        as delineated on the most recent
                        Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault
                        Zoning Map issued by the State
                        Geologist for the area or based on other
                        substantial evidence of a known fault?
                        Refer to Division of Mines and Geology
                        Special Publication 42.

            ii)         Strong seismic ground shaking?

            iii)        Seismic-related ground failure,
                        including liquefaction?

            iv)         Landslides?

            b)          Result in substantial soil erosion or the
                        loss of topsoil?

            c)          Be located on a geologic unit or soil
                        that is unstable, or that would become
                        unstable as a result of the project, and
                        potentially result in on- or off-site
                        landslide, lateral spreading,
                        subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse?

            d)          Be located on expansive soil, as defined
                        in Table 18 1 B of the Uniform Building
                        Code (1994), creating substantial risks
                        to life or property?

            e)          Have soils incapable of adequately
                        supporting the use of septic tanks or
                        alternative waste water disposal
                        systems where sewers are not available
                        for the disposal of waste water?


Responses:

            a-i)   Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is not located within the
            boundaries of an Earthquake Fault Zone (EFZ) (formerly Alquist-Priolo Special Studies
            Zone) identified for fault-rupture hazard as defined by the Alquist-Priolo Earthquake




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               40                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Fault Zoning Act.24 The project site is located approximately 4.5 miles east of the
            Newport-Inglewood Fault, and approximately 3.8 miles northwest of the Hollywood
            Fault, the closest active faults. A Geotechnical Study prepared by Converse Consultants
            and included in Appendix B determined that while the project site is located within the
            vertical projection of the Los Angeles segment of the Puente Hills Blind Thrust Fault, the
            potential for surface ground rupture at the project site is considered low.25 Therefore,
            impacts would be less than significant and no further analysis is necessary.

            a-ii) Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. The project site is located
            within the seismically active Southern California region, thus there is some possibility
            that there could be (a) trace(s) of (a) previously unidentified fault(s) on the project site.
            If evidence of faulting were to be discovered during the grading phase, potential
            building hazards would be mitigated to a level of less than significant, through
            application of already-required provisions of the California Building Code (CBC), Title
            24 which requires compliance with the CBC Part 2 with specific provisions for seismic
            design to mitigate and minimize the effects of earthquakes and ground shaking on
            structures, which sets construction design standards that can reduce potential impacts
            related to seismic activity, including fault rupture and seismic ground shaking.

            Further, the Division of State Architect (DSA) supervises the design and construction of
            school buildings to ensure that (1) the plans and specifications comply with the State
            Building Code set forth at Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations and other
            applicable regulations, and (2) construction has been performed in accordance with the
            plans and specifications.26 The purpose of DSA regulation and oversight is to protect life
            and property by, among other things, ensuring that buildings will resist future
            earthquakes. Under state law, projects that cost more than $25,000, the Los Angeles
            Unified School District (LAUSD) must obtain DSA approval of all plans and
            specifications for school buildings as to safety.27 The DSA is authorized to inspect school
            buildings, during and after the construction process, as necessary to protect the safety of
            pupils, teachers, and the public.28 The DSA must certify that each new school building
            meets state law safety requirements.29

            Mitigation Measure GEO-1, below, is required to ensure compliance with applicable
            city and state building codes and requirements; therefore, with incorporation of this
            mitigation measure, potential impacts associated with the exposure of people or


24 2013 Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, Proposed Two-Story School Facilities Project MORCS, prepared by
   Converse Consultants (Appendix B)
25 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E (Appendix C)
26 Education Code §17280
27 Education Code §§17295, 17297
28 Education Code §17311
29 Education Code §17315


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                41                           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                       Mitigated Negative Declaration



            structures to potential substantial adverse effects including the risk of loss, injury, or
            death involving rupture of a known earthquake fault would be reduced to less than
            significant levels. No further analysis is necessary.

            a-iii & iv)    Less Than Significant Impact. Liquefaction is a seismic phenomenon in
            which loose, saturated, fine-grained granular soils behave similarly to a fluid when
            subjected to high-intensity ground shaking. Liquefaction occurs when three general
            conditions exist: (1) shallow groundwater; (2) low-density, fine, clean sandy soils; and
            (3) high intensity ground motion. Studies indicate that saturated, loose and medium
            dense, near-surface cohesionless soils exhibit the highest liquefaction potential, while
            dry, dense, cohesionless soils and cohesive soils exhibit low to negligible liquefaction
            potential.

            According to the California Department of Conservation (CDC), Hollywood
            Quadrangle, the site is not located in a State Seismic Hazard Zone for liquefaction.30
            A geotechnical study has been prepared in accordance with the City’s approval process.
            Groundwater was not encountered in exploratory borings to a maximum depth of
            51.5 feet. Further, according to the findings in the study, groundwater is not anticipated
            during construction and will not need to be considered in the project’s design.31 Thus
            Mitigation Measure GEO-1 will ensure impacts from liquefaction would be less than
            significant. No further analysis is necessary.

            Landslides and other types of slope failures, such as lateral spreading, can result in areas
            with varying topography in the event of an earthquake. According to the California
            Department of Mines and Geology (CDMG) the site is not located in a State Seismic
            Hazard Zone for landslides.32 Further, no significant ground slopes exists in the vicinity
            of the project site.33 Therefore, the likelihood of seismically induced landslides affecting
            the project site is considered to be remote. No impact would occur. No further analysis
            is necessary.

            b)      Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. Construction associated
            with site development would result in ground surface disruption during site clearance,
            which would temporarily expose soils, allowing for possible erosion. Because the total
            project area is over 1 acre in size, the project applicant would obtain a General Permit for

30 City of Los Angeles Zoning Information and Map Access System (ZIMAS), http://zimas.lacity.org/
31 2013 Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, Proposed Two-Story School Facilities Project MORCS, prepared by
   Converse Consultants
32 2013 Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, Proposed Two-Story School Facilities Project MORCS, prepared by
   Converse Consultants
33 Both Berendo Street and Kenmore Avenue slope down towards 11 th Street. The difference in elevation from the
      southern to northern boundary of the existing school site is approximately 20 feet. To maintain a level campus,
      the school was constructed on a series of terraces that were created by cut and fill grading and are buttressed by
      internal and external retaining walls that reach heights of approximately 20 feet along the northwest corner of
      the school.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                      42                              Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                          August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Discharges of Storm Water Associated with Construction Activity to comply with the
            National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), to control erosion and
            pollution during construction of the project. The permit requires the project applicant to
            prepare and submit a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to be
            administered throughout project construction. The SWPPP must list Best Management
            Practice (BMP) features that the discharger (project applicant) will use to protect storm
            water runoff.

            With implementation of Mitigation Measures GEO-1 through GEO-6, potentially
            significant impacts related to soil erosion and loss of topsoil would be reduced to a less
            than significant level. No further analysis is necessary.

            c)     Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. Potential impacts with
            regard to liquefaction and landslide potential are evaluated above.

            The proposed project would be designed and constructed in conformance with the
            California Building Code (CBC). As discussed above, ultimately, DSA will have to
            approve and supervise each school construction project, ensuring compliance with
            Title 24 requirements and other laws designed to protect site occupants from earthquake
            risks. The plans and specifications for school projects to be approved by DSA are subject
            to all of the performance criteria set forth in Title 24 regarding earthquake safety.
            Compliance with these codes and requirements would assure safe construction practices
            and avoid any potentially significant impacts associated with lateral spreading,
            subsidence, or collapse. Mitigation Measure GEO-7, provided below, would ensure that
            impacts related to the project site’s potential for compressible soils would not pose a
            geologic hazard to future residents. With implementation of mitigation, potentially
            significant impacts would be reduced to a less than significant level. No further analysis
            is necessary.

            d)       Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. The project site has been
            previously disturbed by development activity. As described above, the proposed project
            would be designed and constructed in conformance with Title 24, and would be subject
            to the requirements of the DSA. Based on soil classifications and laboratory test results,
            it is anticipated that medium expansive soils could be encountered during construction
            activities. Any soil materials with an Expansion Index higher than 20 should be
            mitigated.34 Compliance with the Title 24 would mitigate potentially significant impacts
            associated with expansive soils. Nonetheless, Mitigation Measures GEO-1 through
            GEO-8 are required to ensure compliance with these standard regulations. With
            implementation of mitigation, potentially significant impacts would be reduced to a less
            than significant level. No further analysis is necessary.



34 2013 Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, Proposed Two-Story School Facilities Project MORCS, prepared by
   Converse Consultants

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                43                           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            e)     No Impact. Project implementation would not use septic tanks or alternative
            wastewater disposal systems. The proposed project would connect to the existing City of
            Los Angeles sewer system. Therefore, no impact would occur, and no further analysis is
            necessary.

Mitigation Measures

The following mitigation measures are required to ensure impacts related to geology and soils
would remain less than significant.

GEO-1                   The project shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
                        requirements of Chapter 16 (Structural Design) of the 2013 California Code of
                        Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, Volume 2 (based on the International Building Code,
                        Chapter 16, Section 1613 – Earthquake Loads), and accepted engineering
                        practices.

GEO-2                   Prior to start of soil-disturbing activities at the site, the project applicant shall
                        obtain a General Permit for Discharges of Storm Water Associated with
                        Construction Activity to comply with the National Pollution Discharge
                        Elimination System (NPDES), to control erosion and pollution during
                        construction of the project. The project applicant shall prepare and submit a
                        Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to be administered throughout
                        project construction. The SWPPP must list Best Management Practice (BMP)
                        features that the discharger (project applicant) will use to protect storm water
                        runoff.

GEO-3                   All unpaved demolition and construction areas shall be wetted during
                        excavation, grading, and construction, and temporary dust covers shall be used
                        to reduce dust emissions and meet South Coast Air Quality Management District
                        Rule 403.

GEO-4                   The general contractor shall keep the construction area sufficiently damped to
                        control dust caused by construction, hauling and at all times provide reasonable
                        control of dust caused by wind.

GEO-5                   All materials transported off-site shall either be sufficiently watered or securely
                        covered to prevent excessive amounts of dust and spillage. Management of
                        excavated soils are subject to oversight by OEHS; all testing shall be conducted in
                        compliance with District Specification 01 4524.

GEO-6                   All clearing, earthmoving, or excavation activities shall be suspended during
                        period of high winds (i.e., greater than 25 miles per hour over a 30-minute
                        period), so as to prevent excessive amounts of fugitive dust.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    44                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



GEO-7                   All earthwork and grading, structural foundations, on grade slabs, retaining
                        walls, paving, temporary excavations and backfill, and surface drainage shall be
                        designed and constructed consistent with the recommendations provided in the
                        Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report prepared by Converse Consultants, August
                        2013. Specifically, design shall adhere to the recommendations in Section 8.0 Site
                        Grading and Earthwork Recommendations.

GEO-8                   The following procedures shall be followed if expansive soils are encountered on
                        the project site:

                           Pre-saturation of on-site compacted subgrade soils to an approximate
                            3 percent above optimum moisture content

                           Removal of approximately 1 foot of underlying soils to be replaced with
                            imported sandy material compact fill (with an Expansion Index of less
                            than 20)

                           All footing shall be reinforced and all concrete slabs shall include a moisture
                            barrier




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    45                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration


                           Issues:                            Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                              Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                Impact          With           Impact
                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                            Incorporated
VII.        GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS. Would the
            project:

a)       Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either directly
or indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the
environment?
b)       Conflict with an applicable plan, policy or
regulation adopted for the purpose of reducing the
emissions of greenhouse gases?


The SCAQMD is currently developing significance thresholds for greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, but has published draft thresholds using a tiered approach. The draft approach as
most recently updated in September 2010 is as follows:35

      Tier 1: Is the project exempt from further analysis under existing statutory or categorical
       exemptions? If yes, there is a presumption of less than significant impacts with respect to
       climate change.

      Tier 2: Is the project’s GHG emissions within the GHG budgets in an approved regional
       plan? (The plan must be consistent with State CEQA Guidelines §§15064(h)(3), 15125(d), or
       15152(s).) If yes, there is a presumption of less than significant impacts with respect to
       climate change.

      Tier 3: Is the project’s incremental increase in GHG emissions below or mitigated to less
       than the significance screening level (10,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
       [MTCO2e] per year for industrial projects; 3,500 MTCO2e for residential projects;
       1,400 MTCO2e for commercial projects; 3,000 MTCO2e for mixed-use or all land use
       projects)? If yes, there is a presumption of less than significant impacts with respect to
       climate change.

      Tier 4: Does the project meet one of the following performance standards? If yes, there is a
       presumption of less than significant impacts with respect to climate change.

           Option #1: Achieve some percentage reduction in GHG emissions from a base case
            scenario, including land use sector reductions from AB 32 (e.g., 29 percent reduction as
            recommended by the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District).

           Option #2: For individual projects, achieve a project-level efficiency target of 4.8 MTCO2e
            per service population by 2020 or a target of 3.0 MTCO2e per service population by 2035.


35 South Coast Air Quality Management District, “Greenhouse Gases (GHG) CEQA Significance Thresholds
   Working Group Meeting #6,” http://www.aqmd.gov/ceqa/handbook/GHG/2008/oct22mtg/oct22.html. 2008.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    46                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration



            For plans, achieve a plan-level efficiency target of 6.6 MTCO2e per service population by
            2020 or a target of 4.1 MTCO2e per service population by 2035.

     Tier 5: Does the project obtain offsets alone or in combination with the above to achieve the
      target significance screening level (offsets provided for 30-year project life, unless project life
      limited by permit, lease, or other legally binding conditions)? If yes, there is a presumption
      of less than significant impacts with respect to climate change. Otherwise, the project is
      significant.

As of July 2011, the SCAQMD has not announced when staff is expecting to present a finalized
version of these thresholds to the Governing Board for consideration. The SCAQMD has
adopted Rules 2700, 2701, and 2702 that address GHG reductions; however, these rules are
currently applicable to boilers and process heaters, forestry, and manure management projects.

The Tier 3 thresholds are the most applicable to this project. Tier 3 requires that a project’s
incremental increase in GHG emissions should be below or mitigated to less than the
significance screening level. Proposed projects that do not exceed the thresholds would not be
considered to have a significant impact on the attainment of air quality goals and would,
therefore, be considered to be consistent with the current air quality plan.

The SCAQMD draft thresholds do not provide separate significance thresholds for GHG
emissions from construction activities, but recommend including them with operational
emissions as amortized emissions over a 30-year project life. Therefore, the amortized
construction GHG emissions are included in the project’s overall operational emissions and
compared to the Mixed Use/All Land Uses threshold of 3,000 MTCO2e per year.

Responses:

            a)     Less Than Significant Impact. Construction emissions were estimated using
            CalEEMod according to the same methodology as described above in Section III, Air
            Quality. The SCAQMD recommends that construction GHG emissions be amortized
            over a 30-year project lifetime and included in the long-term operational GHG
            emissions. Table 7, Estimated Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions, shows a
            summary of total estimated GHG emissions from construction and operation of the
            proposed project and compares the total to the SCAQMD significance thresholds.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                               47                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                          Table 7
                                            Estimated Operational GHG Emissions

                                                                                                       Emissions
                                                                                                      (Metric Tons
                                            GHG Emissions Source                                       CO2e/year)
                        Proposed Project
                          Transportation (Mobile Sources)                                                   118
                          Area Sources                                                                        1
                          Energy                                                                            147
                          Water & Wastewater                                                                  4
                          Solid Waste                                                                         5
                          Amortized Construction                                                             15
                        Total GHG Emissions                                                                 289
                        SCAQMD Threshold                                                                   3,000
                        Exceeds Threshold?                                                                  NO

                        Source: Impact Sciences, Inc. Emissions calculations are provided in Appendix A.
                        CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.



            As shown in Table 7, the proposed project’s operational emissions would not exceed the
            threshold of 3,000 MTCO2e for land use development projects. Consequently there are
            no significant impacts from GHG emissions attributable to the project. No further
            analysis is necessary.

            b)     Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is within the jurisdiction of the
            SCAQMD, which is the governing authority for air quality planning in the region. The
            SCAQMD CEQA Guidelines are intended to meet the requirements of Assembly Bill 32
            (AB 32), which are the basis for controlling and reducing GHG emissions in California.
            The SCAQMD draft GHG significance thresholds are calculated such that projects with
            emissions below the threshold would not impair attainment of AB 32 requirements
            within the jurisdiction of the SCAQMD. As the net emissions associated with the
            proposed project would be well below the SCAQMD thresholds, the proposed project
            would not conflict with plans, policies, or regulations for reducing GHG emissions. In
            addition, the project would locate a school land use in close proximity to residential land
            uses, which CARB has recommended as a strategy for reducing vehicle miles traveled
            and GHG emissions. As a result, the project would not conflict with the state’s ability to
            meet its GHG goals under AB 32 and would result in a less than significant impact.
            No further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                   48                                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                        Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                          Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                       Mitigation
                                                                                      Incorporated
VIII.                   HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS
                        MATERIALS. Would the project:

            a)          Create a significant hazard to the
                        public or the environment through the
                        routine transport, use, or disposal of
                        hazardous materials?

            b)          Create a significant hazard to the
                        public or the environment through
                        reasonably foreseeable upset and
                        accident conditions involving the
                        release of hazardous materials into the
                        environment?

            c)          Emit hazardous emissions or handle
                        hazardous or acutely hazardous
                        materials, substances, or waste within
                        one-quarter mile of an existing or
                        proposed school?

            d)          Be located on a site which is included
                        on a list of hazardous materials sites
                        compiled pursuant to Government
                        Code section 65962.5 and, as a result,
                        would it create a significant hazard to
                        the public or the environment?

            e)          For a project located within an airport
                        land use plan or, where such a plan has
                        not been adopted, within 2 miles of a
                        public airport or public use airport,
                        would the project result in a safety
                        hazard for people residing or working
                        in the project area?

            f)          For a project within the vicinity of a
                        private airstrip, would the project
                        result in a safety hazard for people
                        residing or working in the project area?

            g)          Impair implementation of or physically
                        interfere with an adopted emergency
                        response plan or emergency evacuation
                        plan?




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                              49                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration


            h)          Expose people or structures to a
                        significant risk of loss, injury, or death
                        involving wildland fires, including
                        where wildlands are adjacent to
                        urbanized areas or where residences
                        are intermixed with wildlands?

            i)          Be located on a site that is (a) a current
                        of former hazardous waste disposal site
                        or solid waste disposal site and, if so,
                        has the waste been removed; (b) a
                        hazardous substance release site
                        identified by the State Department of
                        Health Services in a current list
                        adopted pursuant to Section 25356 of
                        Division 20 of the Health and Safety
                        Code; or (c) a site that contains one or
                        more pipelines, situated underground
                        or above ground, which carries
                        materials or hazardous wastes, unless
                        the pipeline is a natural gas line which
                        is used only to supply natural gas to
                        that school or neighborhood?

            j)          Be located on a site where the property
                        line less than the following distance
                        from the edge of respective power line
                        easement:

                           100 feet of a 50-133 kV line,

                           150 feet of a 220-230 kV line, or

                           350 feet of a 500-550 kV line?

            k)          Be located on a site that is within 1,500
                        feet of a railroad track easement?

            l)          Be located on a site that is adjacent or
                        near to a major arterial roadway or
                        freeway that may pose a safety hazard?

            m)          Be located on a site that is near a
                        reservoir, water storage tanks or high-
                        pressure water lines?

            n)          Be located within 1,500 feet of a
                        pipeline that may pose a safety hazard?

            o)          Be located on a site that does not have a
                        proportionate length to width ratio to
                        accommodate the building layout,
                        parking and play fields that can be
                        safely supervised?




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                50      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                            August 2014
                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


            p)          Be located on a site where the existing
                        or proposed zoning of the surrounding
                        properties is incompatible with schools
                        and may pose a health or safety risk to
                        students?

            q)          Be located on a site that contains, or is
                        near, propane tanks that can pose a
                        safety hazard?

            r)          Be located on a site with a traffic
                        pattern for school buses that can pose a
                        safety hazard?

            s)          Be located on a site that is within 2,000
                        feet of a significant disposal of
                        hazardous waste?


Responses:

            a)      Less Than Significant Impact. A significant impact would occur if the proposed
            project would create a significant hazard though the routine transfer, use, or disposal of
            hazardous materials. Construction of the proposed project would involve the use of
            potentially hazardous materials, including vehicle fuels, oils, and transmission fluids.
            However, all hazardous materials would be contained, stored, and used in accordance
            with manufacturers’ instructions and handled in compliance with applicable standards
            and regulations. In addition, management of excavated soils are subject to oversight by
            LAUSD’s OEHS including testing of the soils which must be compliant with the
            regulations included in the LAUSD’s OEHS Environmental Import/Export Materials
            Testing District Specification 01 4524.

            Operation of the proposed project would involve the limited use and storage of common
            hazardous substances typical of those used at school facilities. No industrial uses or
            activities are proposed that would result in the use or discharge of unregulated
            hazardous materials and/or substances, or create a public hazard through transport, use,
            or disposal. Hazardous materials expected for occasional use may potentially consist of
            limited quantities of custodial and maintenance products, including commercial
            cleansers, lubricants, and paints. In addition, certain courses such as sciences classes and
            industrial arts may involve small quantities of chemicals, fuels and other petroleum
            products, solvents, and paints. The design and operation of the proposed project would
            satisfy all legal requirements by providing for, and maintaining appropriate storage
            areas for hazardous materials, installing or affixing appropriate warning signs and
            labels, using commercial services that specialize in the recycling of used hazardous
            substances (i.e., collecting hazardous materials on a regular basis to minimize the
            quantity stored on campus), installing emergency wash areas for flushing irritating
            substances from eyes and exposed skin areas should such contact occur, providing well-
            ventilated areas in which to use paints and solvents, and maintaining adult supervision
            during student’s use of hazardous materials. All hazardous materials would be

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               51         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            contained, stored, and used in accordance with manufacturers’ instructions and handled
            in compliance with applicable standards and regulations. Any associated risk would be
            adequately reduced to a less than significant level through compliance with these
            standards and regulations, and would not pose significant hazards to the public or the
            environment. Therefore, impacts related to the transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
            materials use would be less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            b)     Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. A significant impact
            would occur if the proposed project created a significant hazard to the public or
            environment due to a reasonably foreseeable release of hazardous materials. Berendo
            Middle School and MORCS currently occupy the project site. Ten bungalow buildings
            will be removed from various locations on the Berendo Middle School Campus to
            accommodate the proposed project. All of the portable bungalows were installed at their
            current location after 1976; but may have been used elsewhere at prior to this date.36 It is
            possible that the structures contain lead-based paint (LBP) and asbestos-containing
            materials, (ACM) which may potentially create a significant hazard to the public or the
            environment through the release of hazardous materials into the environment. In the
            event that ACMs and/or LBP are detected, the applicant will notify the LAUSD
            Technical Unit and/or the Facilities Services Division M&O, to oversee the abatement
            process.

            LBP is considered a health hazard for people, especially children. From the turn of the
            century through the 1940s paint manufacturers used lead as a primary ingredient in
            many oil-based paints. California law requires that all buildings constructed on or before
            January 1, 1979 or schools constructed on or before January 1993 to be presumed to
            contain LBPs.37 Structures are affected by lead-based paint regulations if remodeling,
            renovations, or demolition activities would disturb lead-based paint surfaces. Similarly,
            building materials containing asbestos were commonly used in structures built between
            1945 and 1980. These materials include vinyl flooring and mastic, wallboard and
            associated joint compound, plaster, stucco, acoustic ceiling spray, ceiling titles, heating
            systems components, and roofing materials. Airborne particles of asbestos have been
            found to be hazardous to human health. With the implementation of Mitigation
            Measure HAZ-1, impacts related to the release of hazardous materials would be less
            than significant. No further analysis is required.

            c)      Less Than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. The project site is
            currently occupied by an existing school. As discussed above, operation of the proposed
            project would not involve the use, storage, or transport of substantial quantities of
            hazardous materials other than those typically associated with a school use. Demolition
            of the bungalow buildings could result in the release of ACMs or LBPs adjacent to the
            existing Berendo Middle School. Compliance with existing regulations regarding the

36 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
37 California Code of Regulations (CCR) Title 17, Division 1, Chapter 8, Section 35043


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 52                            Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



            removal of ACMs and LBPs as described in Mitigation Measure HAZ-1 would reduce
            potential impacts. Compliance with these regulations would result in less than
            significant impacts associated with the release of hazardous materials within 0.25 mile of
            a school. No further analysis is necessary.

            d)      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project site is not associated with
            any known hazardous materials or on any known hazardous materials list.38 The project
            site is not listed on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s National
            Priority List,39 or the State Water Resources Control Board’s Geotracker list.40
            A 2,000-gallon diesel Underground Storage Tank (UST) was identified at Berendo
            Middle School, approximately 150 feet southeast of the project site. The UST was
            abandoned in place in 1990 and a diesel fuel release was cleaned up in 1992. The Los
            Angeles Fire Department issued a closure letter for the UST on July 21, 1992. Due to the
            distance from the project site, the nature of the release (i.e., diesel fuel), and the issuance
            of an agency closure letter, the UST does not represent a significant environmental
            concern with respect to the project site. Therefore, impacts would be less than
            significant, and no further analysis is required.

            e-f)    No Impact. The project site is not located within an airport land use plan or
            within the vicinity of a public airport or private airstrip. The nearest public airport is the
            Los Angeles International Airport, located approximately 12.5 miles southwest of the
            project site. Therefore, no impact related to an airport land use would occur. No further
            analysis is necessary.

            g)      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project is not anticipated to
            interfere with an emergency response plan or evacuation plan. During an emergency,
            surrounding properties would evacuate onto the main roads, towards the freeways. The
            proposed project would not alter street patterns associated with the major emergency
            evacuation routes or severely clog the evacuation routes. The proposed project would
            not result in an increase in the surrounding population as the additional 105 students
            would already be living in the area. In addition, the proposed project includes a separate
            drop off/pick up area on 11th Street away from the existing pick-up/drop off area.
            This would improve traffic flow and result in less congestion along the Berendo Street



38 The Planning Center/DC&E, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, 2013
39 United States Environmental Protection Agency, National Priorities List website, http://www.epa.gov/
   superfund/sites/npl/ The National Priorities List is the list of national priorities among the known releases or
   threatened releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants throughout the United States and its
   territories.
40 State Water Resources Control Board, Geotracker website, http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/
      map/?CMD=runreport&myaddress=3228+E+Holt+Ave%2C+West+Covina%2C+CA GeoTracker is a geographic
      information system (GIS) that provides online access to environmental data. GeoTracker is the interface to the
      Geographic Environmental Information Management System (GEIMS), a data warehouse which tracks
      regulatory data about underground fuel tanks, fuel pipelines, and public drinking water supplies.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    53                            Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                      August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            entrance. Therefore, the impact would be less than significant and no further study is
            required

            h)      No Impact. The project site is located within a highly developed, urbanized
            community of the City of Los Angeles and is not subject to wildland fires. No impacts
            related to wildland fires are anticipated and no further analysis is necessary.

            California Department of Education Thresholds

            Title 5 of the California Code of Regulation Section 14010 incorporates health and safety
            factors provided in the California Department of Education’s (CDE) School Site Selection
            and Approval Guide. In combination with the thresholds provided in the State CEQA
            Guidelines, these thresholds (Thresholds i through s, below) ensure that schools provide
            a safe learning environment for students. The following discussions provide analysis of
            the CDE school site safety thresholds.

            i)      Less Than Significant Impact. Historical evidence shows that the project site has
            not been used as a hazardous or solid waste disposal site. The State Department of
            Health Services has not identified the project site as a hazardous substance release site
            nor does the site contain one or more pipelines which transport hazardous waste.41
            Further, as discussed above the project site is not listed on the United States
            Environmental Protection Agency’s National Priority List or the State Water Resources
            Control Board’s Geotracker list. Agency records indicate that a 2,000-gallon “waste” UST
            was installed at Berendo Middle School in 1935. The UST is listed as being used for
            “boiler room storage,” it is likely that the UST was used for fuel storage for two boilers
            that are shown in the off-site Classroom Annex on 1954 construction drawings. The
            Classroom Annex was constructed in 1923 and removed sometime around 1954.
            Documents available from the City of Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) were
            reviewed as part of the Phase I investigation and it was determined that the UST is a
            2,000-gallon diesel fuel tank that was properly closed under agency oversight in 1992.42
            Therefore, impacts related to being located on a hazardous materials disposal site would
            be less than significant and no further analysis is required.

            j)     Less Than Significant Impact. Pursuant to CCR, Title 5, Section 14010(c), the
            property line for a new school site shall be the following minimum distances from the
            edge of a high-voltage power line easement: 100 feet for 50–133 kV lines; 150 feet for
            220–230 kV lines; and 350 feet for 500–550 kV lines. The LADWP indicated that all power




41 National Pipeline Mapping System, NPMS Public Map Viewer, https://www.npms.phmsa.dot.gov/
   PublicViewer/composite.jsf
42 2013 Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E


Impact Sciences, Inc.                               54                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            lines within 350 feet of the site maintained a 50 kV line or less.43 Thus impacts would be
            less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            k)      No Impact. No railroad tracks are located within a 1,500-foot radius of the
            project site. An underground metro line (which provides service for the purple and red
            subway lines) is located approximately 1 mile north of the project site along Wilshire
            Boulevard. However, the existing subway would not pose any safety risk to students
            traveling to and from the school site. Therefore, no impact would occur and no further
            analysis is required.

            l)      No Impact. No arterial roadway or freeway is located within 500 feet of the
            project site. The surrounding streets are categorized as local roads (Berendo Street, 12th
            Street, and Kenmore Avenue) or collector roads (11th Street). Olympic Boulevard,
            Vermont Avenue, and Pico Boulevard are located approximately 0.25 mile north, east,
            and south of the project site, respectively. These major roadways are categorized as
            either Class II major highways or secondary highways.44 They are sufficiently set back
            from the project site that they are not considered to pose a significant safety hazard to
            students that attend MORCS. No adverse impact would occur, and no further analysis is
            necessary.

            m)      No Impact. Pursuant to CCR, Title 5, Section 14010(h), a school site shall not be
            located near an aboveground water tank that can pose a safety hazard, as determined by
            a risk analysis study conducted by a competent professional. The CDE School Site
            Selection and Approval Guide (2000) extends the regulatory protection for hazardous
            substance pipelines to high-pressure water lines within 1,500 feet of a school site.

            The project site and vicinity are serviced by the Los Angeles Department of Water and
            Power (LADWP). The LADWP does not operate any reservoirs or water storage tanks
            near the project site. In response to an information request, the LADWP responded that
            it does not have any high-pressure water lines within 1,500 feet of the project site. The
            Metropolitan Water District (MWD) also indicated that it has no existing or proposed
            facilities or rights-of-way within the limits of the project.45 Therefore, no impact would
            occur related to being located near a reservoir or water storage tank and no further
            analysis is necessary.

            n)       Less Than Significant Impact. Pursuant to CEC Section 17213(a)(3), a school
            district shall not approve a project involving the acquisition of a school site that contains
            one or more aboveground or underground pipelines that carry hazardous substances,
            acutely hazardous materials, or hazardous wastes, unless the pipeline is a natural gas
            line that is used only to supply natural gas to that school or neighborhood. Under CCR,


43 2013 Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
44 2013 Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
45 2013 Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 55                           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Title 5, Section 14010(h) the school site shall not be located near a fuel storage tank or
            within 1,500 feet from the easement of an aboveground or underground pipeline that
            can pose a safety hazard, as determined by a risk analysis study conducted by a
            competent professional, which may include certification from a local public utility
            commission.

            No high-pressure natural gas pipelines operate within a 1,500-foot radius of the project
            site.46 The Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) has confirmed the presence of
            several medium pressure natural gas mains (operating under 60 pounds per square inch
            gauge [psig]) which operate within a 1,500-foot radius of the site.47 These pipelines
            supply natural gas to the surrounding neighborhood and project site and would not
            pose a significant safety hazard to individuals on the project site. The LADWP and the
            Metropolitan Water District do not maintain any high-pressure water lines within
            1,500 feet of the project site.48 Thus impacts would be less than significant. No further
            analysis is required.

            o)     No Impact. The project site is rectangular parcel approximately 1.1-acres in size.
            The site is not unusually shaped and has a sufficient length to width ratio that is
            consistent with CDE standards for school sites, which state that the length-to-width
            should not exceed 2:1. As illustrated in the project description, the proposed structures,
            parking, and play areas could be accommodated within the site. There would be no
            impact, and further analysis is not required.

            p)      No Impact. The project site is located within an urbanized community of the City
            of Los Angeles and is surrounded by residential uses. Berendo Middle School and the
            existing MORCS facilities are currently operating on the project site. As such, no change
            would occur to land use and the proposed project would be sited on an existing school
            property. Further, LAUSD encourages siting schools within existing neighborhoods.
            Therefore, no adverse impacts to student health or safety would occur as a result of
            surrounding development, and no further analysis is required.

            q)      Less Than Significant Impact. Although no propane tanks are known to be
            located on the project site, propane tanks could be present at businesses located along
            the surrounding commercial corridors, less than 0.25 mile from the project site, and at
            single- and multi-family residences located in the immediate vicinity of the project site.
            Rules and regulations pertaining to the storage, transportation, and use of propane
            would ensure that all propane tanks would not pose a safety hazard to individuals on
            the project site. Impacts would be less than significant, and no further analysis is
            required.



46 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
47 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
48 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 56                            Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            r)      Less Than Significant Impact. The pick-up/drop off area for the proposed
            project would be located along 11th Street, separate from the existing Berendo Middle
            School bus pick-up/drop off area which is located on Berendo Street. Impact would be
            less than significant, and no further analysis is required.

            s)      No Impact. Database reviews conducted as part of the Phase I Environmental
            Site Assessment prepared for the proposed project identified no hazardous waste
            disposal sites within 2,000 feet of the project site.49 No impacts would occur, and no
            further analysis is required.

Mitigation Measures

The following mitigation measures are required to ensure impacts related to hazards and
hazardous materials would remain less than significant.

HAZ-1                   Asbestos and lead-based paint surveys shall be conducted on the buildings to be
                        demolished prior to the start of construction. In the event that asbestos and lead-
                        based paint are detected, they shall be abated in accordance with all applicable
                        rules and regulations. Abatement activities shall be completed to the satisfaction
                        of the appropriate regulatory agency(ies) prior to issuance of demolition permits
                        for the proposed project. Abatement of asbestos shall be conducted in accordance
                        with SCAQMD Rule 1403, Asbestos Emissions from Demolition/Renovation
                        Activities.




49 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    57                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
IX.         HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY.
            Would the project:

            a)          Violate any water quality standards or
                        waste discharge requirements?

            b)          Substantially deplete groundwater
                        supplies or interfere substantially with
                        groundwater recharge such that there
                        would be a net deficit in aquifer volume or
                        a lowering of the local groundwater table
                        level (e.g., the production rate of pre-
                        existing nearby wells would drop to a
                        level which would not support existing
                        land uses or planned uses for which
                        permits have been granted)?

            c)          Substantially alter the existing drainage
                        pattern of the site or area, including
                        through the alteration of the course of a
                        stream or river, in a manner which would
                        result in substantial erosion or siltation on-
                        or off-site?

            d)          Substantially alter the existing drainage
                        pattern of the site or area, including
                        through alteration of the course of a
                        stream or river, or substantially increase
                        the rate or amount of surface runoff in a
                        manner which would result in flooding
                        on-or-off-site?

            e)          Create or contribute runoff water which
                        would exceed the capacity of existing
                        planned stormwater drainage systems or
                        provide substantial additional sources of
                        polluted runoff?

            f)          Otherwise substantially degrade water
                        quality?

            g)          Place housing within a 100-year flood
                        hazard area as mapped on a federal Flood
                        Hazard Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate
                        Map or other flood hazard delineation
                        map?




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                             58                           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                         Mitigated Negative Declaration


            h)          Place within a 100-year flood hazard areas
                        structures which would impede or redirect
                        flood flows?

            i)          Expose people or structures to a
                        significant risk of loss, injury or death
                        involving flooding, including flooding as a
                        result of the failure of a levee or dam?

            j)          Expose people or structures to a
                        significant risk of loss, injury or death
                        involving inundation by seiche, tsunami,
                        or mudflow?



Responses:

            a)      Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. A significant
            impact would occur if the proposed project discharges water that does not meet the
            quality standards of agencies which regulate surface water quality and water discharge
            into stormwater drainage systems. A significant impact would also occur if the proposed
            project would not comply with all applicable regulations with regard to surface water
            quality as governed by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB).

            Three general sources of potential short-term, construction-related stormwater pollution
            associated with the proposed project include: (1) the handling, storage, and disposal of
            construction material containing pollutants, (2) the maintenance and operation of
            construction equipment; and (3) earth moving activities which, when not controlled,
            may generate soil erosion via storm runoff or mechanical equipment.

            As required under the NPDES, the project applicant is responsible for preparing a
            SWPPP to mitigate the effects of erosion and the inherent potential for sedimentation
            and other pollutants entering the stormwater system. The primary objective of the
            NPDES stormwater program are to: (1) effectively prohibit non-storm water discharges,
            and (2) reduce the discharge of pollutants from stormwater conveyance systems to the
            Maximum Extent Practicable (“MEP” statutory standards) The SWPPP would
            incorporate the required implementation of Best Management Practice (BMPs) for
            erosion control and other measures to meet the NPDES requirements for stormwater.
            Implementation of the BMPs identified in the SWPPP and compliance with the NPDES
            and City discharge requirements would ensure that the construction of the proposed
            project would not violate any water quality standards or discharge requirements, or
            otherwise substantially degrade water quality. Furthermore, the implementation of the
            Mitigation Measures HYD-1 through HYD-4 would ensure that the proposed project’s
            construction-related water quality impacts would be less than significant with
            mitigation incorporated.



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                          59           Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                           August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The proposed project would continue to generate operational-related surface water
            runoff. The project site generally drains from south to north. Surface water drainage
            within paved areas of the project site is controlled by subtle topographic northward
            gradients that direct water to local collector drains for off-site conveyance and eventual
            discharge to the Los Angeles River. Stormwater run-off around the project site is
            controlled by curb and gutter systems and catchment basins within the local streets.

            The proposed project would also comply with water quality standards and wastewater
            discharge requirements set forth by the Standard Urban Storm Water Mitigation Plan
            (SUSMP) for Los Angeles County and Cities in Los Angeles County and approved by
            the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board (LARWQCB). Full compliance
            with the SUSMP and implementation of design-related BMPs, including applicable
            requirements in the mitigation measures below, would ensure that the operation of the
            proposed project would not violate any water quality standards or discharge
            requirements or otherwise substantially degrade water quality. Therefore, operational
            water quality impacts would be less than significant with mitigation incorporated. No
            further analysis is necessary.

            b)      No Impact. A significant impact would occur if the proposed project
            substantially depleted groundwater or interfered with groundwater recharge. The
            proposed project would not install any groundwater wells, and would not otherwise
            directly withdraw any groundwater. The project site is currently developed and is not
            currently used for groundwater recharge activities. Therefore, no impacts related to
            groundwater are anticipated. No further analysis is required.

            c)      Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. A significant
            impact would occur if the proposed project substantially altered the drainage pattern of
            the site or an existing stream or river, so that substantial erosion or siltation would result
            on- or off-site. No stream or river is present on the project site. As discussed above,
            surface water drainage within paved areas of Berendo Middle School and MORCS are
            controlled by subtle northward topographic gradients that direct water to local collector
            drains located on the northern portion of the site. Very little change would occur to the
            drainage pattern on the project site as the site includes a curb and gutter system for
            stormwater drainage.

            During construction, erosion, and siltation from the project site could increase
            significantly as a result of soil disturbance and construction operations. Construction-
            related activities that expose soils to potential mobilization by rainfall/runoff and wind
            are primarily responsible for sediment releases. Such activities include removal of
            vegetation from the site, grading of the site, and trenching for infrastructure
            improvements. Environmental factors that affect erosion include topographic, soil, and
            rainfall characteristics. Unless adequate erosion controls are installed and maintained at
            the site during construction, significant quantities of sediment may be delivered to the
            downstream receiving waters. With implementation of Mitigation Measures HYD-5


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 60                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            and HYD-6, impacts related to erosion and siltation on- or off-site would be less than
            significant. No further analysis is required.

            d)      Less Than Significant Impact. A significant impact would occur if the proposed
            project substantially altered the drainage pattern of an existing stream or river so that
            flooding would result. No streams or rivers exist on the project site. As discussed above,
            the project site currently drains south to north. Upon implementation of the proposed
            project, the drainage pattern for the project site would be similar. Overall runoff from
            the project site would remain the same, as the percentage of pervious area would be
            similar. The proposed project would be required to develop a SWPPP, to ensure runoff
            does not degrade water quality during construction and a SUSMP, to ensure project
            operations do not degrade water quality. Therefore, impacts related to drainage and
            flooding would be less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            e)      Less Than Significant Impact. A significant impact would occur if runoff water
            exceeded the capacity of existing or planned storm drain systems serving the project site.
            A project-related significant adverse effect would also occur if a project would
            substantially increase the probability that polluted runoff would reach the storm drain
            system. As discussed above, the project site currently drains to the north. Upon
            implementation of the proposed project, the drainage pattern for the project site would
            be similar; as well as the amount of runoff from the project site, as there would be a
            comparable percentage of pervious area with the proposed project. As discussed above,
            surface water drainage is controlled by northward gradients that direct water to local
            collector drains for off-site conveyance and eventual discharge to the Los Angeles River.
            Stormwater run-off around the project site is controlled by curb and gutter systems and
            catchment basins within the local streets.

            As the drainage pattern, percentage of pervious area, and uses of the project site would
            not change, the proposed project would not result in runoff exceeding the capacity of the
            existing or planned storm drain system. Therefore, impacts related to runoff would be
            less than significant. No further analysis is necessary.

            f)      Less Than Significant Impact. A significant impact would occur if the proposed
            project would substantially degrade water quality. As discussed above, project
            construction and operations would be required to comply with applicable federal, state,
            and local regulations, as well as code and permit provisions in order prevent violation of
            water quality standards or waste discharge requirements. The uses associated with the
            proposed project include educational uses that would not be expected to degrade water
            quality. Therefore, impacts related to water quality would be less than significant and no
            further analysis is required.

            g-h) No Impact. Pursuant to CEC Section 17212 and 17212.5, and CCR Title 5, Section
            14010(g), a school site shall not be located within an area of flood or dam flood
            inundation unless the cost of mitigating the flood or inundation impact is reasonable.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                               61                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



            As designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the project site is located
            in an area of minimal flooding (Zone X, a moderate risk area with a 0.2 percent annual
            chance floodplain).50 Based on a review of the relevant flood inundation maps prepared
            for the Los Angeles County area, the project site would not be subject to flooding in the
            event of failure of either the Hansen or Sepulveda dams.51 No flood impacts would
            occur and no further analysis is necessary.

            i)     No Impact. As discussed above, the project site would not expose people or
            structures to significant risk including injury or death as a result of flooding. According
            to US Army Corps of Engineers Flood Inundation Maps, two dams are located in the Los
            Angeles County area, the Hansen and Sepulveda Dams. Based on a review of the
            relevant flood inundation maps, the project site would not be subject to flooding in the
            event of failure of either dam.52 Impacts would be less than significant, no further
            analysis is necessary.

            j)      No Impact. A significant impact would occur if the proposed project exposed
            persons or structures to an area susceptible to inundation by seiche, tsunami, or
            mudflow. A seiche is an oscillation of a body of water in an enclosed or semi-enclosed
            basin, such as a reservoir, harbor, or lake. A tsunami is a great sea wave produced by a
            significant undersea disturbance. Mudflows result from the downslope movement of
            soil and/or rock under the influence of gravity. The project site is not mapped within a
            tsunami hazard zone. Similarly, damage to the project site due to a seiche is not likely at
            the project site because no bodies of water are present near the site. Furthermore, the
            project site, which is not positioned downslope from any unprotected slopes or
            landslide areas, and is not positioned in an area of potential mudflow. Therefore, no
            impact related to inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow would occur. No further
            analysis is necessary.

Mitigation Measures

The following mitigation measures are required to ensure impacts related to hydrology and
water quality would remain less than significant.

HYD-1                   All construction waste shall be disposed properly. Use appropriately labeled
                        recycling bins to recycle construction materials including: solvents, water-based
                        paints, vehicle fluids, broken asphalt and concrete, wood, and vegetation.
                        Nonrecyclable materials/wastes shall be taken to an appropriate landfill. Toxic
                        wastes must be discarded at a licensed regulated disposal site.

50 2013 Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report, Proposed Two-Story School Facilities Project MORCS, prepared by
   Converse Consultants
51 2013 Draft Phase One Environmental Site Assessment, prepared by The Planning Center/DCE & E
52 City of Los Angeles, General Plan, Safety Element, Exhibit G, Inundation and Tsunami Hazard Areas in the City
   of Los Angeles

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   62                          Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



HYD-2                   During construction, leaks, drips, and spills shall be cleaned up immediately to
                        prevent contaminated soil on paved surfaces that can be washed away into the
                        storm drain.

HYD-3                   During construction, where truck traffic is frequent, gravel approaches shall be
                        used to reduce soil compaction and limit the tracking of sediment into streets.

HYD-4                   All construction vehicle/equipment maintenance, repair, and washing shall be
                        conducted away from storm drains. All major repairs shall be conducted off-site.
                        Drip pans or drop cloths shall be used to catch drips and spills.

HYD-5                   During construction, appropriate erosion control and drainage devices shall be
                        incorporated such as interceptor terraces, berms, vee-channels, and inlet and
                        outlet structures.

HYD-6                   Following construction and during operation of the project, post development
                        peak stormwater runoff discharge rates shall not exceed the estimated pre-
                        development rate for developments where the increase peak stormwater
                        discharge rate will result in increased potential for downstream erosion.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  63                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                         Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                              Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                      Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                        Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                     Mitigation
                                                                                    Incorporated
X.          LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the
            project:

            a)          Physically divide an established
                        community?

            b)          Conflict with any applicable land use
                        plan, policy, or regulation of an agency
                        with jurisdiction over the project
                        (including, but not limited to the
                        general plan, specific plan, local coastal
                        program, or zoning ordinance) adopted
                        for the purpose of avoiding or
                        mitigating an environmental effect?

            c)          Conflict with any applicable habitat
                        conservation plan or natural
                        community conservation plan?


Responses:

            a)      No Impact. The project site is located within the Wilshire Community Plan Area,
            as established by the City’s General Plan. Project implementation would develop a
            1.1-acre middle school campus with three one- and two-story buildings, a landscaped
            courtyard, and an underground parking structure. Surrounding land uses include the
            Berendo Middle School Campus, residential uses in the immediate vicinity of the project
            site and several commercial corridors less than 0.25 mile from the project site. The
            proposed project would result in the construction of the proposed project, which is a
            school, on an existing school site. Further, the MORCS school currently operates on the
            existing project site and therefore would not change the existing land use. As such no
            division of a community would occur. No impact would occur and no further analysis is
            necessary.

            b)      Less Than Significant Impact. The project site is zoned PF for public facilities.
            The Community Plan includes several goals, objectives, and policies that would be
            applicable to the proposed project. These policies are listed below in Table 8 followed by
            a determination of the project’s consistency with each policy. As shown in the table, the
            proposed project would be consistent with the Community Plan, as such, impacts would
            be less than significant and no further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                            64                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                           August 2014
                                                                                                       Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                 Table 8
                        Project Consistency with Wilshire Community Plan Policies

                Wilshire Community Plan Policy                                                 Project Consistency
Schools– Goal 6: Facilitate the provision of public schools and           Consistent. The proposed project would provide an additional
adequate school facilities to serve every neighborhood in the             66 student seats, increasing the MORCS’ capacity to 405
Wilshire Community Plan Area                                              students.
Schools– Objective 6.1: Locate schools in areas complimentary             Consistent. Residential uses are located east and north of the
to existing surrounding land uses with buffering, convenient to           project site. Berendo Middle School is located immediately
local neighborhoods, and with access to recreational                      south and west of the project site, with single-family residences
opportunities.                                                            surrounding the existing middle school. The MORCS school
                                                                          currently operates on the project site and therefore would not
                                                                          represent a change in land use. Seoul International Park is
                                                                          located 0.8 mile northwest of the project site and Normandie
                                                                          Park Recreation Center is located is located 0.7 mile south of the
                                                                          project site.
Schools– Policy 6.1.1: Encourage compatibility between school             Consistent. The proposed project will consistent of three one-
locations, site layouts, architectural designs, and local                 and two-story buildings which would be similar in height to the
neighborhood character.                                                   existing buildings located on the Berendo Middle School
                                                                          Campus as well as the surrounding neighborhood which
                                                                          includes single- and multi-family buildings. The proposed
                                                                          project will be constructed in accordance with LAUSD Design
                                                                          Guidelines.
Schools– Objective 6.1.2: Encourage public school design that             Consistent. The proposed project would be located on an
buffers classrooms from noise sources.                                    existing school site surrounded by residential uses. The project
                                                                          site is elevated above street level which would help to minimize
                                                                          impacts associated with noise.
Schools– Objective 6.1.3: Expansion of existing public school             Consistent. Berendo Middle School and MORCS currently
facilities should be considered prior to acquisition of new sites.        operate on the project site. The proposed project would mean
                                                                          expansion of the existing MORCS school to allow an additional
                                                                          105 seats.
Schools– Objective 6.1.4: Encourage cooperation between the               Consistent. The MORCS would participate in the LAUSD and
LAUSD and the Department of Recreation and Parks to provide               Department of Recreation and Parks shared use agreement to
shared use of schools and recreation facilities for the entire            provide shared use of schools and recreation facilities for the
Wilshire Community.                                                       entire Wilshire Community.
Schools– Objective 6.2: Continue to work constructively with              Consistent. The proposed project would provide an additional
the LAUSD to promote the siting and construction of adequate              66 student seats, increasing MORCS’ capacity to 405 students.
public school facilities phased with anticipated population
growth in the Wilshire Community Plan Area.
Schools– Policy 6.2.1: Explore creative alternatives for                  Consistent. The proposed project would be constructed on an
providing new public school sites in the Wilshire Community               existing school site in the Wilshire Community Plan Area.
Plan Area, where appropriate.
Schools– Objective 6.3: Maximize the use of public schools for            Consistent. The MORCS would participate in the LAUSD and
neighborhood use, and of local open space and parks for public            Department of Recreation and Parks shared use agreement to
school use.                                                               provide shared use of schools and recreation facilities for the
                                                                          entire Wilshire Community.
Schools– Policy 6.3.1: Continue to encourage the siting of                Consistent. The MORCS would participate in the LAUSD and
neighborhood facilities (e.g., libraries, parks, schools, and             Department of Recreation and Parks shared use agreement to
auditoriums) together as shared use facilities.                           provide shared use of schools and recreation facilities for the
                                                                          entire Wilshire Community.
Schools– Objective 6.4: Encourage the provision of charter                Consistent. The proposed project is a charter school.
schools, especially in the Wilshire Center area, as an effective
method of delivering quality public education facilities at the
neighborhood level.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                65                                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                          August 2014
                                                                                                      Mitigated Negative Declaration



                Wilshire Community Plan Policy                                                 Project Consistency
Schools– Policy 6.4.1: Recognize the ability of charter schools to        Consistent. The proposed project is a charter school and would
effectively provide classroom space in impacted urban areas.              result in the addition of 66 student seats at MORCS, in the urban
                                                                          Pico-Union Neighborhood.
Schools– Policy 6.4.2: Encourage the location of charter schools          Consistent. The MORCS school is currently operating on the
in the Wilshire Center area as a means to alleviate overcrowded           Berendo Middle School Campus with a student population of
school conditions.                                                        339 students. Upon buildout the proposed project will
                                                                          accommodate an additional 66 students increasing capacity
                                                                          within the Wilshire Center area.
Schools– Policy 6.4.3: Support the construction of charter                Consistent. The proposed project is a charter school.
schools as being desirable to public convenience and welfare.




            c)     No Impact. The project site is not within a habitat conservation plan or a natural
            community conservation plan. Thus, the proposed project would not conflict with any
            applicable conservation elements or natural community conservation plan. No impact
            would occur as a result of project implementation, and no additional analysis is
            required.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                66                                   Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                         August 2014
                                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                        Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                          Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                       Mitigation
                                                                                      Incorporated
XI.         MINERAL RESOURCES. Would the project:

            a)          Result in the loss of availability of a
                        known mineral resource that would be
                        of value to the region and the residents
                        of the state?

            b)          Result in the loss of availability of a
                        locally-important mineral resource
                        recovery site delineated on a local
                        general plan, specific plan or other land
                        use plan?


Responses:

            a-b) No Impact. The project site is located in an area that is already heavily
            urbanized. The Wilshire Community Plan does not indicate an important mineral
            resource located on or near the project site. Therefore, no impact associated with mineral
            resources would occur, and no further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                              67                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                        Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                          Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                       Mitigation
                                                                                      Incorporated
XII.        NOISE. Would the project result in:

            a)          Exposure of persons to or generation of
                        noise levels in excess of standards
                        established in the local general plan or
                        noise ordinance, or applicable
                        standards of other agencies?

            b)          Exposure of persons to or generation of
                        excessive groundborne vibration or
                        groundborne noise levels?

            c)          A substantial permanent increase in
                        ambient noise levels in the project
                        vicinity above levels existing without
                        the project?

            d)          A substantial temporary or periodic
                        increase in ambient noise levels in the
                        project vicinity above levels existing
                        without the project?

            e)          For a project located within an airport
                        land use plan or, where such a plan has
                        not been adopted, within 2 miles of a
                        public airport or public use airport,
                        would the project expose people
                        residing or working in the project area
                        to excessive noise levels?

            f)          For a project within the vicinity of a
                        private airstrip, would the project
                        expose people residing or working in
                        the project area to excessive noise
                        levels?


Responses:

            Characteristics of Sound

            Sound is technically described in terms of the loudness (amplitude) and frequency
            (pitch) of the sound. The standard unit of measurement for sound is the decibel (dB).
            The human ear is not equally sensitive to sound at all frequencies. The “A-weighted
            scale,” abbreviated dB(A), reflects the normal hearing sensitivity range of the human
            ear. On this scale, the range of human hearing extends from approximately 3 to
            140 dB(A). Table 9 provides examples of A-weighted noise levels from common sources.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                              68                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                                     Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                           Table 9
                                                   A-Weighted Decibel Scale

                              Typical A-Weighted Sound Levels                             Sound Level (dB(A), Leq)
                 Threshold of Pain                                                                     140
                 Jet Takeoff at 100 Meters                                                             125
                 Jackhammer at 15 Meters                                                                95
                 Heavy Diesel Truck at 15 Meters                                                        85
                 Conversation at 1 Meter                                                                60
                 Soft Whisper at 2 Meters                                                               35


                 Source: United States Occupational Safety & Health Administration, Noise and Hearing Conversation Technical
                 Manual, 1999.




            Noise Definitions

            This noise analysis discusses sound levels in terms of Community Noise Equivalent
            Level (CNEL) and Equivalent Noise Level (Leq).

            Community Noise Equivalent Level. CNEL is an average sound level during a 24-hour
            period. CNEL is a noise measurement scale, which accounts for noise source, distance,
            single event duration, single event occurrence, frequency, and time of day. Human
            reaction to sound between 7:00 PM and 10:00 PM is as if the sound were actually 5 dB(A)
            higher than if it occurred from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM From 10:00 PM to 7:00 AM, humans
            perceive sound as if it were 10 dB(A) higher due to the lower background level. Hence,
            the CNEL is obtained by adding an additional 5 dB(A) to sound levels in the evening
            from 7:00 PM to 10:00 PM and 10 dB(A) to sound levels in the night from 10:00 PM to
            7:00 AM. Because CNEL accounts for human sensitivity to sound, the CNEL 24-hour
            figure is always a higher number than the actual 24-hour average.

            Equivalent Noise Level. Leq is the average noise level on an energy basis for any
            specific period. The Leq for 1 hour is the energy average noise level during the hour. The
            average noise level is based on the energy content (acoustic energy) of the sound. Leq
            can be thought of as the level of a continuous noise that has the same energy content as
            the fluctuating noise level. The equivalent noise level is expressed in units of dB(A).

            Effects of Noise

            The degree to which noise can impact the environment ranges from levels that interfere
            with speech and sleep to levels that cause adverse health effects. Human response to
            noise is subjective and can vary from person to person. Factors that influence individual
            response include the intensity, frequency, and pattern of noise, the amount of



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                69                                  Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                        August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            background noise present before the intruding noise, and the nature of work or human
            activity exposed to the source.

            Audible Noise Changes

            Small perceptible changes in sound level for a person with normal hearing sensitivity is
            approximately 3 dB(A). A change of at least 5 dB(A) would be noticeable and could
            produce a community reaction. A 10 dB(A) increase is heard as a doubling in loudness
            and would produce a community response.

            Noise levels decrease as the distance from the noise source to the receiver increases.
            Noise generated by a stationary noise source, or “point source,” will decrease by
            approximately 6 dB(A) over hard surfaces (e.g., reflective surfaces such as parking lots
            or smooth bodies of water) and 7.5 dB(A) over soft surfaces (e.g., absorptive surfaces
            such as soft dirt, grass, or scattered bushes and trees) for each doubling of distance. For
            example, if a noise source produces a noise level of 89 dB(A) at a reference distance of
            50 feet, the noise level would be 83 dB(A) at a distance of 100 feet from the noise source,
            77 dB(A) at a distance of 200 feet, and so on. Noise generated by a mobile source will
            decrease by approximately 3 dB(A) over hard surfaces and 4.5 dB(A) over soft surfaces
            for each doubling of distance.

            Noise is most audible when traveling by direct line-of-sight, a visual path between the
            noise source and noise receptor. Barriers, such as walls or buildings that break the line-
            of-sight between the source and the receiver can greatly reduce noise levels from the
            source since sound can only reach the receiver by diffraction. Sound barriers can reduce
            sound levels by up to 20 dB(A) or more. However, if a barrier is not high or long enough
            to break the line-of-sight from the source to the receiver, its effectiveness is greatly
            reduced.

            The California Department of Health Services has established guidelines for acceptable
            exterior noise levels for each county and city. These standards and criteria are
            incorporated into the land use planning process to reduce future noise and land use
            incompatibilities. Table 10 reflects state guidance that allows the City to ensure
            integrated planning for compatibility between land uses and outdoor noise.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                               70                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                    Table 10
                           Land Use Compatibility for Community Noise Environments

                                                                                   Community Noise Exposure (dB(A), CNEL)
                        Land Use Category                                        55    60       65      70       75      80
 Residential - Low Density Single-Family, Duplex,
 Mobile Homes


 Residential - Multi-Family



 Transient Lodging - Motels Hotels



 Schools, Libraries, Churches, Hospitals, Nursing Homes



 Auditoriums, Concert Halls, Amphitheaters



 Sports Arena, Outdoor Spectator Sports



 Playgrounds, Neighborhood Parks



 Golf Courses, Riding Stables, Water Recreation,
 Cemeteries


 Office Buildings, Business Commercial and Professional



 Industrial, Manufacturing, Utilities, Agriculture




        Normally Acceptable - Specified land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any buildings involved are of normal conventional
        construction without any special noise insulation requirements.

        Conditionally Acceptable - New construction or development should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis of the noise reduction
        requirements is made and needed noise insulation features included in the design. Conventional construction, but with closed windows and fresh
        air supply system or air conditioning will normally suffice.

        Normally Unacceptable - New construction or development should generally be discouraged. If new construction or development does proceed, a
        detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements must be made and needed noise insulation features included in the design.

        Clearly Unacceptable - New construction or development should generally not be undertaken.


 Source: California Office of Noise Control, Department of Health Services.



            State interior noise standards were established in 1974, when the California Commission
            on Housing and Community Development adopted noise insulation standards for

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                       71                                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                                    August 2014
                                                                             Mitigated Negative Declaration



            residential buildings (Title 24, Part 2, California Code of Regulations). Title 24
            establishes standards for interior room noise attributable to outside noise sources. Title
            24 also specifies that acoustical studies should be prepared whenever a residential
            building or structure is proposed to be located in areas with exterior noise levels of
            60 dB Day-Night Average Noise Level (Ldn) or greater. The acoustical analysis must
            show that the building has been designed to limit intruding noise to an interior level not
            exceeding 45 dB Ldn for any habitable room.

            Applicable Regulations


            City of Los Angeles Municipal Code

            The City of Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) has established both construction and
            operation noise regulations. Between the hours of 7:00 AM and 10:00 PM, in any
            residential zone of the City or within 500 feet thereof, no person shall operate or cause to
            be operated any powered equipment or powered hand tool that produces a maximum
            noise level exceeding the following noise limits at a distance of 50 feet therefrom:

                  75 dB(A) for construction, industrial, and agricultural machinery including crawler-
                   tractors, dozers, rotary drills and augers, loaders, power shovels, cranes, derricks,
                   motor graders, paving machines, off-highway trucks, ditchers, trenchers,
                   compactors, scrapers, wagons, pavement breakers, compressors and pneumatic or
                   other powered equipment;

                  75 dB(A) for powered equipment of 20 horse-power or less intended for infrequent
                   use in residential areas, including chain saws, log chippers and powered hand tools;

                  65 dB(A) for powered equipment intended for repetitive use in residential areas,
                   including lawn mowers, backpack blowers, small lawn and garden tools.

            Additionally, according to the LAMC, a noise level increase of five decibels over the
            existing average ambient noise level at an adjacent property line is considered a noise
            violation. This standard applies to sources such as consumer electronics, HVAC systems,
            powered equipment intended for repeated use in residential areas and motor vehicles
            driven on-site. Section 41.40 of the LAMC also prohibits construction activity from
            occurring between the hours of 9:00 PM and 7:00 AM Monday through Friday, and
            between 6:00 PM and 8:00 AM on Saturday.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  72                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                               August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            LAUSD School Upgrade Program EIR

            LAUSD has developed a set of policy statements and thresholds related to impacts for
            on-site school operations. In particular, these thresholds are designed to maintain a safe,
            comfortable educational environment for children attending LAUSD schools. Noise
            thresholds for LAUSD classrooms are:

                  Maximum exterior noise level 70 dB(A) L10 or 67 dB(A) Leq

                  Maximum interior classroom noise level 55 dB(A) L10 or 45 dB(A) Leq

                  Maximum permanent increase of noise levels at nearby noise-sensitive land uses of
                   3 dB(A) or higher

                  Classroom acoustical performance shall be 45 dB(A) Leq background noise level
                   (unoccupied) or better with maximum (unoccupied) 0.6 second reverberation time.

            a)          Less than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated.

            Construction Noise Impacts

            For purposes of assessing noise impacts on sensitive populations, the following sensitive
            receptors to the project site were identified for analysis:

                  1110 Berendo Street. This apartment building is 60 feet directly east of the project site
                   and has a direct line of sight to the project site. Primary noise sources were children
                   playing and some traffic.

                  2695 West 11th Street. This apartment complex is 65 feet north of the project site
                   across 11th Street. Because its grade is 6 feet lower than the adjacent project site, the
                   only line of sight into the school and playing fields is from the second floor of this
                   and other buildings on 11th Street. Noise was primarily from the schoolyard, which,
                   as stated, is approximately 6 feet higher than the street.

                  1025 Dewey Avenue. This site is 320 feet north of the site and is a larger apartment
                   building with a higher density of receptors. Because its grade is over 28 feet lower
                   than the project site and has several intervening structures between, there is a
                   minimal line of sight to the project site. Because of its proximity to Olympic
                   Boulevard, ambient noise is influenced by traffic; in addition, barking dogs and
                   children playing at Berendo Middle School could also be heard.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   73                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



                  Northwest corner of South Kenmore and 11th Street. This site is 260 feet northwest of
                   the project site and represents ambient noise at the rear of homes abutting the school.
                   Monitoring was not done directly next to the residences (e.g., 1102 Kenmore)
                   because of the difference in topography (i.e., a large block retaining wall for the
                   playing fields abuts the rear of the residential property lines) and an inability to
                   access the sites. There was low-level ambient noise because students were inside
                   classrooms.

                  West 12th Street. Apartments on the south side of West 12th Street face Berendo
                   Middle School and could be exposed to construction or operational noise. Noise
                   measurements were taken on the sidewalk on West 12th Street on the southern edge
                   of Berendo Middle School across from Dewey Street, approximately 425 feet south of
                   the project boundary. These apartments are level with 12th Street and have a direct
                   line of sight into the Berendo School grounds. However, these buildings are 16 feet
                   higher than the grade of the project site. The primary source of noise was from
                   children playing outside, with minimal noise from traffic on West 12th Street and
                   Dewey.

                  Berendo Middle School (On-site campus). It should be noted that because
                   construction activities would overlap with portions of the school year, the existing
                   middle school would also be affected during school hours. Construction noise
                   during classroom hours could increase ambient noise inside the classrooms, which
                   are approximately 20 feet south of the project site on a terrace level that is 8 feet
                   higher than the project site. In addition, any construction during outdoor play would
                   increase ambient noise outside, as close as 10 feet from existing playground areas
                   west of the project site at the same terrace level as the project site. Because on-site
                   monitoring on the campus was not possible, noise measurements taken on the
                   sidewalk on West 12th Street represent a conservative representation of ambient noise
                   levels during outdoor play. The bulk of the campus is 16 feet higher than the grade
                   of the project site, with a smaller terraced level fronting Berendo Street that is 8 feet
                   higher than the grade of the project site.

            To ascertain the ambient noise levels at these sensitive receptors, DKA Planning took
            short-term, 15-minute noise readings at all five locations on April 8, 2014 using a Quest
            Technologies SoundPro DL Sound Level Meter. As shown in Table 11, ambient noise
            levels were relatively uniform in this residential neighborhood, ranging from 55.6 dB(A)
            Leq at Berendo Middle School to 58.4 dB(A) Leq at the corner of 11th and Kenmore.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   74                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                       Table 11
                                        Construction Noise Levels – Unmitigated

                                                                             Maximum               Existing           New
                                                         Distance           Construction           Ambient           Ambient
                                                        from Site*          Noise Level             (dB(A),          (dB(A),
                Sensitive Receptor                         (feet)             (dB(A))                Leq)             Leq)            Increase
 Multi-family residences at 1110 Berendo                    60                 73.1                  56.9               73.2            16.3
 Multi-family residences at 2659 11th                       65                 75.8                  57.4               75.9            18.5
 Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                     320                 67.1                  58.0               63.2             5.2
 Multi-family residences at 11th & Kenmore                 260                 61.8                  58.4               63.5             5.1
 Multi-family residences on West     12th                  425                 69.6                  55.6               61.0             5.4
 Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)                      20                 58.1                  40.6               58.2            17.6
 demolition and grading phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)                     10                 82.3                  55.6               82.3            26.7
 demolition and grading phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)                      20                 59.7                  40.6               59.8            28.3
 construction phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)                     10                 74.3                  55.6               74.4            18.8
 construction phases

 Source: DKA Planning, 2014.
 * Assumes equipment operations are set back from property line on average one-third of the total depth of the property facing the adjacent use.



            Construction, demolition (or removal of existing classroom building and other
            structures), ground clearing, grading, structural, and other noise-generating activities
            would occur between 7:00 AM and 9:00 PM in accordance with the LAMC. Construction
            activities would vary over several phases of development and would include off-road
            larger equipment such as tractors, loaders and smaller equipment such as saws,
            hammers, and pneumatic tools. The 18-month construction process would begin in
            summer 2015 and end in fall 2016 and include the following key stages:

                  Demolition

                       Removal of approximately 10,000 square feet of restroom and bungalow
                        buildings

                       Removal of about 52,718 square feet of asphalt concrete pavement (4-inch depth)
                        and base material (5-inch depth) from the basketball courts, parking lot, and
                        other existing improvements

                       Removal of three on-site trees

                       Removal of related improvements (basketball poles, chain link fencing, retaining
                        walls, sidewalks)


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                  75                                      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



                       Equipment would include a concrete/industrial saw, dozer, and three loaders
                        that would produce a cumulative reference noise level of 91.2 dB(A) at 50 feet of
                        distance

                       On-Road trucks would generate noise from the export of 8,680 cubic yards of cut-
                        and-fill materials (assumes 20 percent swell of cut materials) and demolition
                        materials from the site to an off-site disposal location

                  Grading

                       9,664 cubic yards of cut materials for the underground parking garage and other
                        site work

                       2,430 cubic yards of fill

                       On-Road trucks would generate noise from the export of 8,680 cubic yards of cut-
                        and-fill materials (assumes 20 percent swell of cut materials) from the site to an
                        off-site disposal location

                       Equipment would include a rubber tired loader, grader, and dozer that would
                        produce a cumulative reference noise level of 89.8 dB(A) at 50 feet of distance

                  Construction

                       Construction of three one- and two-story buildings totaling about 37,000 square
                        feet and a one-level subterranean parking garage

                       On-Road trucks would generate noise from the delivery of building materials to
                        the site

                       Equipment would include a generator set, crane, forklift, rubber tired loader, and
                        three welders that would produce a cumulative reference noise level of
                        92.8 dB(A) at 50 feet of distance

                  Paving

                       Installation of 3 to 4 inches of asphalt concrete over a 4-inch crushed aggregate
                        base

                       On-Road trucks would generate noise from the delivery of paving materials to
                        the site

            Table 11 summarizes projected noise levels at nearby sensitive receptors during
            construction. Land uses on the properties surrounding the project site include multi-
            family residential and school uses. Construction noise would generally peak during
            building construction, where up to seven pieces of equipment could produce a

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   76                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            cumulative 92.8 dB(A) at 50 feet of distance. This would significantly increase ambient
            noise levels above 75 dB(A) (the City of Los Angeles threshold) at two of the off-site
            sensitive receptors and represent increases of more than 5 dB(A) at all off-site receptors.
            In the absence of attenuation, construction activities would generate maximum off-site
            noise levels of up to 75.9 dB(A) at the 11th Street residences, an increase of up to
            18.5 dB(A).

            An increase in noise levels as a result of demolition and grading activities would also
            occur at Berendo Middle School which is directly adjacent to the project site. Noise
            levels would be most significant during the demolition phase, where concrete asphalt
            and base layers would be removed right up to the playground directly west and south
            of the project site. In addition, grading of the underground garage would potentially be
            directly adjacent to the playground area as well. Construction activities could increase
            outside noise levels on the playground by up to 28.3 dB(A), Leq bringing the new noise
            level on the adjacent playground to 83.9 dB(A) Leq, as shown in Table 11, above.
            Because construction activities would elevate ambient noise levels above the LAUSD
            exterior noise level (67 dB(A) Leq) at one or more of the adjacent sensitive receptors, as
            well as exceed the City of Los Angeles threshold of resulting in an increase of more than
            5 dB(A) and elevate ambient noise levels above 75 dB(A), the proposed project would
            result in significant but mitigable construction noise impacts.

            As shown in Table 12, Construction Noise Levels – Mitigated, the maximum exterior
            noise level during construction, after implementation of Mitigation Measures NOI-2
            through NOI-13 (below), would be 61.8 dB(A) Leq, below LAUSD’s 67 dB(A) Leq
            threshold and the City’s 75 dB(A).

            During construction and demolition activities, the maximum interior ambient noise level
            would be elevated above the LAUSD threshold (55 dB(A)) for classrooms located on the
            Berendo Middle School Campus (Table 12). Construction activities including the use of
            heavy machinery and tools would result in a new ambient noise level of 59.8 dB(A).
            However, with Mitigation Measures NOI-1 through NOI-12 the indoor ambient noise
            levels for classrooms located on the Berendo Middle School campus would be reduced
            to 44.2 dB(A) as shown in Table 12. Thus construction related impacts would be less
            than significant and no further analysis is required.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                               77                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                         Table 12
                                           Construction Noise Levels – Mitigated

                                                                             Maximum                                  New
                                                        Distance            Construction           Existing          Ambient
                                                        from Site           Noise Level           Ambient            (dB(A),
                Sensitive Receptor                        (feet)*             (dB(A))            (dB(A), Leq)          Leq)          Increase
 Multi-family residences at 1110 Berendo                    60                   57.1                 56.9              60.0             3.1
 Multi-family residences at 2659 11th                       65                   59.8                 57.4              61.8             4.4
 Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                     320                   58.7                 58.0              61.4             3.4
 Multi-family residences at 11th & Kenmore                 260                   58.8                 58.4              61.6             3.2
 Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)                      20                   40.1                 40.6              43.4             2.8
 demolition and grading phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)                     10                   N/A                  55.6              N/A             N/A
 demolition and grading phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)                      20                   41.7                 40.6              44.2             3.6
 construction phases
 Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)                     10                   58.3                 55.6              60.2             4.6
 construction phases

 Source: DKA Planning, 2014.
 * Assumes equipment operations are set back from property line on average one-third of the total depth of the property facing the adjacent use.
 N/A Assumes that demolition and grading activities are curtailed during outdoor play activities at Berendo Middle School.



            As shown in Table 12, existing ambient noise levels are relatively uniform in the
            surrounding residential neighborhood, ranging from 55.6 dB(A) Leq at Berendo Middle
            School to 58.4 dB(A) Leq at the corner of 11th and Kenmore. Haul trucks would generate
            noise off-site from nearly all phases of the construction process. This would include
            removal of materials from the project site, including the net export of 8,680 cubic yards
            of cut-and-fill materials, removal of asphalt, base materials, and demolished structures.
            Depending on the capacity of trucks, this could produce up to 868 haul trips during the
            peak phase of grading that add incremental traffic volumes to local roads. This addition
            of up to several truck trips per hour would marginally increase ambient noise along haul
            route roadways, as truck deployment onto local streets would not happen
            simultaneously, but rather be phased over the course of the day. There would also be
            truck-related noise on local streets from the delivery of asphalt, base material, and
            building construction materials to the site. These would generally not occur
            simultaneously with the removal of materials, as the phasing process generally wouldn’t
            accommodate concurrent import and export activities. Mitigation Measure NOI-12 is
            intended to minimize off-site noise from haul trucks that could increase noise levels in
            adjacent residential neighborhoods. With implementation of Mitigation Measure
            NOI-12, impacts would be less than significant and no further analysis is needed.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                  78                                     Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Operations Noise Impacts

            During project operations, the development would produce both direct noise impacts on
            the site from residential and commercial-related activities, as well as indirect noise
            impacts from vehicles traveling on local roads to access the site. The direct impacts
            would include stationary noises from sources associated with building operations, such
            as heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems.

            Section 41.40 and Chapter XI, Articles 1 through 6, of the LAMC requires that noise
            generated by mechanical equipment not exceed 5 dB(A) above ambient noise levels at
            adjacent property lines. Large ground level heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
            (HVAC) systems typically generate noise levels between 50 and 65 dB(A) at 50 feet.
            Rooftop mounted equipment typically produces noise levels of up to approximately
            56 dB(A) at 50 feet. The nearest off-site receptors would be apartments at 1110 Berendo
            located approximately 60 feet east of the project site. These land uses would experience a
            0.6 dB(A) increase in ambient noise. This negligible increase is less than the 5 dB(A)
            significance threshold for long-term ambient noise increases. Therefore, stationary noise
            would result in a less than significant impact.

            The majority of operational noise impacts would be from indirect noise impacts
            associated with the 243 net new vehicle trips each day with 81 vehicle trips entering and
            exiting the project site in the morning peak hour and 24 in the afternoon peak hour.

            The impact of this additional traffic on ambient noise levels in the project’s vicinity was
            modeled under existing year (2013) no project scenario, existing year (2013) plus project
            scenario utilizing the FHWA TNM 2.5 model. As shown in Table 13, Estimated AM and
            PM Peak Hour Mobile Source Noise Levels, the only noise impacts resulting from
            mobile sources would occur along 11th Avenue between Normandie Avenue and
            Mariposa Avenue with a 0.3 dB(A) increase in ambient noise during the AM and PM
            peak hours.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                               79                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                Table 13
                         Estimated AM and PM Peak Hour Mobile Source Noise Levels

                                                                    Estimated dB(A), CNEL
                                                        No
                                                      Project   With Project      Project            Significant
                        Roadway Segment               (2013)       (2013)         Change               Impact
 Olympic Blvd. between Catalina St. & Berendo St.     AM 66.3     AM 66.3          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 66.4     PM 66.4          PM 0.0               PM No
 Olympic Blvd. between & Berendo St. &Vermont Ave.    AM 69.8     AM 69.8          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 69.9     PM 69.9          PM 0.0               PM No
 Vermont Ave. between Olympic Blvd. &11th St.         AM 73.2     AM 73.2          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 72.6     PM 72.6          PM 0.0               PM No
 Vermont Ave. between       12th   St. & Pico Blvd.   AM 73.2     AM 73.2          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 73.1     PM 73.1          PM 0.0               PM No
 Pico Blvd. between Vermont Ave. & Berendo St.        AM 71.5     AM 71.5          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 70.9     PM 70.9          PM 0.0               PM No
 Normandie Ave. between 11th St.& 12th St.            AM 71.0     AM 71.0          AM 0.0               AM No
                                                      PM 71.5     PM 71.5          PM 0.0               PM No
 11th St between Normandie Ave. & Mariposa Ave.       AM 62.3     AM 62.6          AM 0.3               AM No
                                                      PM 64.3     PM 64.6          PM 0.3               PM No


 Source: DKA Planning, 2014.



            Mobile noise generated by the proposed project would not cause the ambient noise level
            measured at the property line of the affected uses to be elevated above the LAUSD
            threshold (67 dB(A) for properties located along 11th St. between Normandie Avenue
            and Mariposa Avenue. As a result, these inaudible, off-site vehicular noise impacts
            would be considered a less than significant impact.

            Finally, there would be long-term noise impacts from vehicles accessing the project site.
            This would include vehicles entering the underground garage from 11th Street, a student
            pick-up/drop-off area from 11th Street, and associated car door slams. The proposed
            project is to be built on what now includes a surface parking lot that is adjacent to
            sensitive receptors. Existing car door slams can increase ambient noise levels at the
            nearest off-site receptor at 1110 Berendo by 0.9 dB(A). Thus the ambient noise level with
            the proposed project would be 57.8 dB(A), below the LAUSD threshold of 67 dB(A).
            Further, because the proposed project is removing these parking spaces and placing
            them in an underground garage that will attenuate some noise, parking noise should
            decrease at nearby sensitive receptors. Because of this decrease in parking activity at the
            street level, parking noise would result in a less than significant impact.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  80                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                                     Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Buildings included in the proposed project will meet LAUSD’s construction and design
            standards, including the maximum interior classroom noise level threshold. Impacts
            would be less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            b.)     Less than Significant. Groundborne vibration generated by construction
            activities associated with the proposed project would primarily affect the off-site
            sensitive uses located in close proximity to the project site. The closest is the multi-
            family residential buildings to the east across Berendo. As shown in Table 14, vibration
            velocities could range from 0.003 to 0.089 inch/sec peak particle velocity (PPV) at 25 feet
            from the source activity, with corresponding vibration levels (VdB) ranging from 58 VdB
            to 87 VdB at 25 feet from the source activity, depending on the type of construction
            equipment in use. Table 15, Vibration Levels at Off-Site Sensitive Uses from Project
            Construction, shows the vibration velocity and levels that would occur at these off-site
            sensitive uses during construction at the project site.

            The vibration velocities forecasted to occur at the off-site sensitive receptors would be
            less than 0.024 PPV at the closest receptors on Berendo and 11th Street. While both are
            non-engineered timber and masonry buildings considered to be “fragile,” neither would
            experience a PPV groundborne vibration level that exceeds 0.2 inch per second. Thus,
            vibration impacts associated with building damage due to construction activities at the
            project site would be less than significant and no mitigation measures are required.



                                                      Table 14
                                 Vibration Source Levels for Construction Equipment

                                    Approximate PPV (in/sec)                                   Approximate RMS (VdB)
  Equipment             25 Feet    50 Feet 60 Feet 75 Feet 100 Feet               25 Feet     50 Feet 60 Feet 75 Feet            100 Feet
Large Bulldozer          0.089      0.031      0.024      0.017        0.011         87         78         76           73           69
Caisson Drilling         0.089      0.031      0.024      0.017        0.011         87         78         76           73           69
Loaded Trucks            0.076      0.027      0.020      0.015        0.010         86         77         75           72           68
Jackhammer               0.035      0.012      0.009      0.007        0.004         79         70         68           65           61
Small Bulldozer          0.003      0.001     0.0008      0.0006      0.0004         58         49         47           44           40

Source: Federal Transit Administration, Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, 2006



            In terms of human annoyance, the vibration levels experienced by the off-site sensitive
            receptors would range from 54 VdB at 1025 Dewey to 76 VdB. The vibration levels
            experienced at all off-site sensitive receptors would not exceed the FTA’s 80 VdB
            threshold for residential uses. Therefore, impacts related to construction vibration
            would be less than significant, and no further analysis is required.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               81                                  Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                       August 2014
                                                                                                         Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                       Table 15
                        Vibration Levels at Off-Site Sensitive Uses from Project Construction

                                                              Distance to Project         Estimated PPV           Estimated Vibration
                  Sensitive Uses Off-Site                          Site (ft.)                (in/sec) a              Levels (VdB) b
   Multi-family residential at 1100 Berendo                             60                      0.024                         76
   Multi-family residential on 11th Street                              65                      0.021                         75
   Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                               320                      0.002                         54
   Multi-family residences at 11th & Kenmore                           260                      0.003                         56
   a The vibration velocities at the off-site sensitive uses are determined with the following equation from the Federal Transit
     Administration’s Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, Final Report: PPVequip = PPVref x (25/D)1.5, where PPVequip = peak
     particle velocity in in/sec of equipment, PPVref = reference vibration level in in/sec at 25 feet, D = distance from the equipment to the
     receive.
   b The vibration levels at the off-site sensitive uses are determined with the following equation from the Federal Transit Administration’s

     Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, Final Report: Lv(D) = Lv(25 ft) – 30 log (D/25), where Lv = vibration level of
     equipment, D = distance from the equipment to the receiver, Lv(25 ft) = vibration level of equipment at 25 feet.
   Source: DKA Planning, 2014.




            Operations Phase Vibration Impacts

            During operation of the proposed project, there would not be significant stationary
            sources of ground-borne vibration, such as heavy equipment operations. Operational
            ground-borne vibration in the project vicinity would be generated by vehicular travel on
            the local roadways. Road vehicles rarely create enough groundborne vibration to be
            perceptible to humans unless the road surface is poorly maintained and there are
            potholes or bumps. If traffic, typically heavy trucks, induces perceptible vibration in
            buildings, such as window rattling or shaking of small loose items, then it is most likely
            an effect of low-frequency airborne noise or ground characteristics. Project-related traffic
            would expose residential land uses during long-term operations to a vibration and noise
            level of far less than the FTA’s 80 VdB threshold for residential uses and would be
            considered less than significant, and no further analysis is required.

            c)      Less than Significant Impact. The majority of any long-term noise impacts will
            come from traffic traveling to and from the area. Off-site noise generated by traffic from
            the project was modeled under future year (2016) no project and with project conditions
            utilizing the FHWA TNM 2.5 model. When calculating future noise levels along project
            area roadways from traffic, additional impacts from 37 additional potential new or
            proposed projects were considered. Thus, the future traffic results without and with the
            proposed project account for the cumulative impacts from these other projects. Since the
            noise impacts are generated directly from the traffic analysis results, the future without
            project and future with project noise impacts described reflect cumulative impacts.

            During project operations, activities associated with the proposed project would result
            in both direct noise impacts on the project site from residential and commercial-related


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                  82                                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                            August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



            activities, as well as indirect noise impacts from vehicles accessing the project site.
            Vehicles accessing the project site would result in the greatest operational noise increase
            of 0.9 dB(A) and would not exceed LAUSD’s threshold of a 3 dB(A) permanent increase.

            The proposed project would contribute to future increases in off-site noise levels at
            project area roadways. The greatest project-related noise increases would be 0.2 dB(A)
            Leq along 11th Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa during the AM and PM peak
            hours. These impacts are considered negligible and would be less than the 3 dB(A)
            significance threshold. Therefore, the project’s individual and cumulative mobile source
            noise impacts would be considered less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            d)      Less than Significant Impact With Mitigation Incorporated. Construction of the
            project would contribute to cumulative construction noise levels. There are 37 related
            projects that are proposed for development in the area. Of these, none are within 500 feet
            of the proposed project with potential to cause audible increases at identified sensitive
            receptors. All potential projects in the area are more than 1,000 feet away and not likely
            to influence localized pollutant concentrations at sensitive receptors adjacent to the
            project site.

            Regardless, any construction noise from any future site, were it to occur concurrently
            with the proposed project, would be attenuated by the distance across intervening
            streets and/or structures that break the line of sight from this site to the nearby receptors.
            Additionally, any such projects would be subject to the City’s noise ordinance, which
            limits the hours of allowable construction activities and the extent to which direct noise
            impacts can affect adjacent land uses. With conformance with the City’s noise ordinance
            and incorporation of Mitigation Measures NOI-1 through NOI-13, the project’s
            cumulative construction noise impact would be considered less than significant.

            e)     No Impact. The project site is not located within an airport land use plan or
            within 2 miles of a public airport or public use airport. As such, the project would not
            expose future employees or students to excessive airport-related noise levels.
            No impacts would occur.

            f)      No Impact. The project site is not in the vicinity of a private airstrip. As a result,
            the proposed project will not expose future employees or students to excessive noise
            levels from any private airstrip. No impacts would occur.

Mitigation Measures

The following mitigation measures are required to reduce construction noise impacts to less
than significant.

NOI-1                   The project shall comply with the City of Los Angeles Building regulations
                        Ordinance No. 178048, which requires a construction site notice to be provided


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  83                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        that includes the following information: job site address, permit number, name
                        and phone number of the contractor and owner or owner’s agent, hours of
                        construction allowed by code or any discretionary approval for the site, and City
                        telephone numbers where violations can be reported. The notice shall be posted
                        and maintained at the construction site prior to the start of construction and
                        displayed in a location that is readily visible to the public.

NOI-2                   Construction and demolition activities shall be scheduled so as to avoid, to the
                        extent feasible, simultaneously operating several pieces of equipment that cause
                        high noise levels.

NOI-3                   The use of those pieces of construction equipment or construction methods with
                        the greatest peak noise generation potential shall be minimized. Examples
                        include the use of drills and jackhammers.

NOI-4                   Noise and groundborne vibration construction activities whose specific location
                        on the site may be flexible (e.g., operation of compressors and generators, cement
                        mixing, general truck idling) shall be conducted as far as possible from the
                        nearest noise- and vibration-sensitive land uses, and natural and/or manmade
                        barriers (e.g., intervening construction trailers) shall be used to screen
                        propagation of noise from such activities towards these land uses to the
                        maximum extent possible.

NOI-5                   Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be
                        erected between the proposed project and homes across Berendo and West 11 th
                        Street to minimize the amount of noise during construction. These temporary
                        sound barriers shall be capable of achieving a sound attenuation of at least
                        13 dB(A) and block the line-of-sight between the project site and these adjacent
                        land uses.

NOI-6                   Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be
                        erected between the proposed project and the playgrounds to the south and west
                        of the project site to minimize the amount of noise during all construction
                        phases. These temporary sound barriers shall be capable of achieving a sound
                        attenuation of at least 13 dB(A) and block the line-of-sight between the Project
                        site and these adjacent land uses.

NOI-7                   The project contractor shall use power construction equipment with state-of-the-
                        art noise shielding and muffling devices capable of attenuating sound by 3 dB(A)
                        or more.

NOI-8                   Demolition of concrete asphalt shall not be done during school hours when
                        children are playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and west of the project
                        site.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   84                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



NOI-9                   All construction truck traffic shall be restricted to truck routes approved by the
                        City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, which shall avoid
                        residential areas and other sensitive receptors to the extent feasible.

NOI-10                  The construction staging area shall be as far from sensitive receptors as possible.

NOI-11                  Two weeks prior to commencement of construction, notification shall be
                        provided to the off-site residential, school, and church uses within 500 feet of the
                        project site that discloses the construction schedule, including the types of
                        activities and equipment that would be used throughout the duration of the
                        construction period.

NOI-12                  Any haul route for trucks disposing of demolished structures or concrete asphalt
                        material shall avoid residential streets to the extent possible.

NOI-13                  Grading and construction of the underground garage shall not be done during
                        school hours when children are playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and
                        west of the project site.

As shown in Table 12, construction noise levels after mitigation would be reduced at nearby
sensitive receptors to less than 75 dB(A) with implementation of Mitigation Measures NOI-1
through NOI-13. Noise increases would be less than the 5 dB(A) threshold of significance that
represents a significant audible increase in ambient noise. Construction equipment could
produce intermittent audible noise increases at adjacent residential housing; however, these
would be temporary and construction noise would be within the noise standards outlined in the
City’s Municipal Code. Implementation of Mitigation Measures NOI-1 through NOI-13 would
reduce construction noise impacts to less than significant levels. Mitigation Measures NOI-5
and NOI-6 will require the erection of sound barriers that will attenuate construction noise for
the off-site homes and the adjacent Berendo Middle School, respectively. A combination of
sound barrier construction design, materials, and height will be needed to achieve noise
attenuation. For example, every meter of additional height above the line of sight from a noise
source to a receiver can attenuate an addition 1.5 dB(A) of noise. Finally, Mitigation Measure
NOI-8 ensures that any construction activities do not expose children playing outside to
substantial increases in noise levels.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    85                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
XIII.       POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the
            project:

            a)          Induce substantial population growth
                        in an area, either directly (for example,
                        by proposing new homes and
                        businesses) or indirectly (for example,
                        through extension of road or other
                        infrastructure)?

            b)          Displace substantial numbers of
                        existing housing, necessitating the
                        construction of replacement housing
                        elsewhere?

            c)          Displace substantial numbers of
                        people, necessitating the construction
                        of replacement housing elsewhere?


Responses:

            a)     Less Than Significant Impact. MORCS has been operating on the project site
            since 2011 and currently serves 339 students. The proposed project would facilitate an
            addition of 66 students on the project site for a total of 405 students. The increase in
            students would not be substantial and would not indirectly induce substantial
            population growth in the area as it is assumed new students would be drawn from the
            surrounding neighborhood and would not result in new permanent population growth.
            Therefore, the impact would be less than significant and no further analysis is required.

            b-c)    No Impact. No housing exists on the project site. Berendo Middle School and
            MORCS currently operate on the project site. The proposed project would not result in
            the displacement of existing housing or displace a substantial number of people
            resulting in the construction of replacement housing elsewhere. No impacts would
            occur, and no further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               86                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                       Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                            Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                    Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                      Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
                                                                                  Incorporated
XIV.        PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the project:

            a)          Result in substantial adverse physical
                        impacts associated with the provision
                        of new or physically altered
                        governmental facilities, need for new or
                        physically altered governmental
                        facilities, the construction of which
                        could cause significant environmental
                        impacts, in order to maintain
                        acceptable service ratios, response
                        times or other performance objectives
                        for any of the public services:

                         Fire protection?
                         Police protection?
                         Schools?
                         Parks?
                         Other public facilities?


Responses:

            a)      Less Than Significant Impact. First response for fire and paramedic services to
            the project site would be provided by the Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) Fire
            Station No. 13 located at 2401 West Pico Boulevard, approximately 0.4 mile south of the
            project site.

            As part of the project review process, the LAFD will review the project and make
            recommendations for fire protection services and fire flow rates. Depending on the
            outcome of the review, any require the project applicant. In addition, the proposed
            project would comply with all applicable state and local codes and ordinances related to
            fire protection. As such, given compliance with required codes and ordinances, impacts
            would be less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            b)     Less Than Significant Impact. Primary law enforcement for future individual
            school projects would be handled by the Los Angeles School Police Department
            (LASPD). While law enforcement activities on the LAUSD campuses would be
            performed by the LASPD, general campus activities would be under the supervision of
            the principal, vice-principal, teachers, and other campus employees. The Los Angeles
            Police Department (LAPD) would be the secondary provider of law enforcement
            services within the area and provides police protection services to the project site.
            The LAPD is divided into four bureaus — the Central, West, Valley and South bureaus,
            which are subsequently divided into 23 divisions. The project site is located within the
            Olympic Area of the West Bureau. The Olympic Area covers 6.2 square miles and is


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                          87                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                         August 2014
                                                                             Mitigated Negative Declaration



            bounded by Melrose Avenue to the north, the Santa Monica Freeway to the south,
            Hoover Street to the east, and Plymouth Avenue to the west. The project site is served by
            the Olympic Area Community Police Station located at 1130 South Vermont Avenue,
            approximately 0.2 mile east of the project site. For resource purposes and statistical
            analysis, the Olympic Area is further subdivided into reporting districts. The proposed
            project site falls within the service boundaries of Reporting District (RD) 2056.53

            The proposed project has been designed as a secure campus, with access to the site
            controlled by gates and fences. Drivers and pedestrians who are part of the public-at-
            large would not be permitted to park in the school’s underground parking lot or access
            the school campus. Persons with business on campus would be required to check in
            with the school’s administration at the entry to the campus before being allowed on-site.
            The school would install electronic security and fire alarm systems.

            Similar to fire protection services, public police service needs are generally related to the
            size of the population and geographic area served, the number and type of calls for
            service, and other community and physical characteristics. The MORCS is currently
            operating on the project site with 339 students. The proposed project would increase the
            student population by 66 students for a total of 405 students. The incremental increase in
            students on the campus would not be sufficient to result in an increase in demand for
            police protection services. Further, implementation of the project design features,
            including lighting and the installation of an electronic security system would ensure that
            impacts related to police protection services would be less than significant. Therefore, no
            further analysis is necessary.

            c)      No Impact. The proposed project does not include any residential development
            and would increase the student capacity at the existing MORCS school. The proposed
            project would not increase demand on schools and instead would provide relief for
            overcrowding of schools by increasing the capacity of the existing MORCS school. As
            such, no impacts would occur. No further analysis is necessary.

            d)      Less Than Significant Impact. The City of Los Angeles Department of
            Recreation and Parks manages park facilities and provides recreation programs to City
            residents. The closest park facilities to the project site include the Seoul International
            Park, located at 3250 San Marino St., Los Angeles, California 90006 and the Normandie
            Park Recreation Center, located at 1550 S. Normandie Ave., Los Angeles, California
            90006. Both park and recreation facilities are less than 1 mile from the project site.
            The proposed project does not involve any increase in residential units that would result
            in a permanent population increase that could result in an increase in use of existing
            parks. However, the proposed project does include a minimal increase in capacity of the
            MORCS of 66 students. While it is possible that the additional students could use nearby
            parks such as those described above, the design of the campus includes sufficient

53 Los Angeles Police Department, West Bureau


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                88                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                               August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            recreational areas to serve the increased population. As such, it is not expected that the
            increase in students associated with the proposed project would result in the need for
            new or expanded recreational facilitates and no further analysis is necessary.

            e)       Less Than Significant Impact. The Los Angeles Public Library (LAPL) provides
            library services to the project area. The campus will provide additional educational
            facilities for its students, which would reduce the potential for impacts to surrounding
            City libraries. In addition, no residential units are included as part of the proposed
            project which would result in a permanent increase in population. Therefore, any
            increase in use of public libraries would be less than significant and no further analysis
            is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                               89                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
XV.         RECREATION. Would the project:

            a)          Increase the use of existing
                        neighborhood and regional parks or
                        other recreational facilities such that
                        substantial physical deterioration of the
                        facility would occur or be accelerated?

            b)          Does the project include recreational
                        facilities or require the construction or
                        expansion of recreational facilities
                        which have an adverse physical effect
                        on the environment?


Responses:

            a)      Less Than Significant Impact. Refer to Section XIV. Public Services, above.
            As discussed above, the proposed project would not result in the addition of any
            residential uses and would not substantially increase demand on local parks and would
            include recreational facilities to serve the proposed increase student population.
            Therefore, impacts to existing neighborhood and regional parks would be less than
            significant. No further analysis is necessary.

            b)      Less Than Significant Impact. Implementation of the proposed project would
            result in the removal of four basketball courts, which are currently used by the Berendo
            Middle School and MORCS students. New recreational facilities will be constructed as
            part of the proposed project, including a multi-purpose room and large courtyard with
            landscaping and bench seating. The courtyard will be located in the center of the
            campus providing students with an area to play and a basketball court will be located in
            the southwestern corner of the campus. The construction of these recreational facilities is
            described throughout this Initial Study and has been determined that it would not result
            in an adverse physical impact. Therefore, impacts would be less than significant, and no
            further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               90                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
XVI.        TRANSPORTATION and TRAFFIC. Would
            the project:

            a)          Cause an increase in traffic which is
                        substantial in relation to the existing
                        traffic load and capacity of the street
                        system (i.e., result in a substantial
                        increase in either the number of vehicle
                        trips, the volume to capacity ratio on
                        roads, or congestion at intersections)?

            b)          Exceed, either individually or
                        cumulatively, a level of service
                        standard established by the county
                        congestion management agency for
                        designated roads or highways?

            c)          Result in a change in air traffic
                        patterns, including either an increase in
                        traffic levels or a change in location
                        that results in substantial safety risks?

            d)          Substantially increase hazards due to a
                        design feature (e.g., sharp curves or
                        dangerous intersections) or
                        incompatible uses (e.g., farm
                        equipment)?

            e)          Result in inadequate emergency access?

            f)          Conflict with adopted policies, plans,
                        or programs supporting alternative
                        transportation (e.g., bus turnouts,
                        bicycle racks)?


A traffic study was prepared for the proposed project by KOA Corporation in May 2014. The
analysis is attached to this Initial Study as Appendix D and is summarized below.54




54 The impacts of an additional 66 students were included in the traffic analysis. As discussed in the Project
   Description the proposed project would include an additional 105 students. Thus the traffic analysis provides a
   conservative estimate of future conditions with the buildout of the proposed project and surrounding projects.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                               91                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



Responses:

            a)          Less Than Significant Impact.

            Construction Impacts

            Access to the project site is currently provided via Berendo Street. Project
            implementation would result in a period of construction activity prior to buildout.
            Figure 7, Potential Construction Truck Routes, identifies which streets would be used
            by construction trucks to reach the project site. Haul trucks would likely travel to the
            project site from the US-101 and I-10 freeways via Vermont Avenue. These routes would
            ensure travel distance in the surrounding residential neighborhoods is minimized and
            that construction vehicles access the neighborhood at a signalized intersection (Vermont
            Avenue and 11th Street).

            The intersections between Vermont Avenue and the project site are unsignalized.
            During the construction period, truck operators should be directed by the construction
            manager to obey residential area speed limits, either as posted or the prima facie speed
            limit of 25 mph if not posted.

            Construction traffic would be restricted to truck routes approved by the City
            Department of Building and Safety. Construction staging (i.e., storage of equipment and
            materials) would be contained on the project site. The large pieces of equipment would
            be delivered to the site at the beginning of each construction stage and removed when
            they are no longer needed. Likewise, construction materials would be delivered to the
            project site within a limited timeframe when needed and waste would be removed from
            the site on an as-needed basis. Delivery trucks would arrive at and depart from the site
            during off-peak hours. Periodic curb lane closures may occur upon obtaining permits
            from the City of Los Angeles.

            Pedestrian access along the south side of 11th Street, adjacent to the project site may be
            inaccessible during construction activities, including the removal of construction and
            demolition waste, as well as equipment deliveries. When construction activities result in
            the closure of the surrounding sidewalk(s), pedestrian detour signs that guide
            pedestrians to the nearest accessible sidewalk should be posted at the adjacent
            intersections in both directions.

            In order to minimize potential conflicts between construction activity and traffic, a
            construction management plan would be developed for use during project construction.
            Further, a Truck Haul Route program would be submitted to the City for review and
            approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. Construction vehicles would cause
            only temporary and intermittent increases in traffic on area roadways, and would not
            contribute to a significant increase in traffic volumes during the construction phase.



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   92                    Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
    LEGEND
               Project Location
       #       Study Intersections                                1                      2                   OLYMPIC BLVD




                                     3                                W 11th ST
                                                                                       4




                                                                                       VERMONT AVAVE
                                                                                       VERMONT   E
                                                                                       5               W PICO BLVD



           392       196         0                    392

   n          APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
SOURCE: KOA Corporation May 2014 Traffic Impact Study for MORCS

                                                                                                                            FIGURE   7
                                                                                  Potential Construction Truck Routes
1107.003•07/14
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Operation Impacts

            The following five intersections were analyzed to determine if the proposed project
            would result in a potentially significant traffic impact:

            1.          Berendo Street & Olympic Boulevard

            2.          Vermont Avenue & Olympic Boulevard

            3.          Normandie Avenue & 11th Street

            4.          Vermont Avenue & 11th Street

            5.          Vermont Avenue & Pico Boulevard

            Existing Conditions

            Manual intersection counts (including vehicle classifications, bicycles, and pedestrians)
            at these five intersections were performed in December of 2013 during the 7:00 AM to
            9:00 AM and 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM peak periods. New manual intersection turn movement
            counts were applied to the analysis of existing 2014 traffic conditions at the study
            intersections.

            Based on the existing traffic volumes and the intersection geometries, volume-to-
            capacity ratios and corresponding levels of service (LOS) were determined for the five
            study intersections during the weekday AM and PM peak hours.

            In accordance with the City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation (LADOT)
            practices, the Circular 212 Planning methodology was applied to determine the level of
            service (LOS) for signalized intersections. The concept of roadway level of service under
            the Circular 212 method is calculated as the volume of vehicles that pass through the
            facility divided by the capacity of that facility. A facility is “at capacity” (V/C of 1.00 or
            greater) when extreme congestion occurs. This volume/capacity ratio value is a function
            of hourly volumes, signal phasing, and approach lane configuration on each leg of the
            intersection.

            LOS values range from LOS A to LOS F. LOS A indicates excellent operating conditions
            with little delay to motorists, whereas LOS F represents congested conditions with
            excessive vehicle delay. LOS E is typically defined as the operating “capacity” of a
            roadway.

            LADOT has established specific thresholds for project related increases in the volume-
            to-capacity ratio (V/C) of signalized study intersections. Table 16 includes the increases
            in peak-hour V/C ratios which have been deemed significant according to LADOT.



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  94                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                           Table 16
                                              Significant Peak Hour V/C Ratios

                    Level of Service                         Final V/C*                       Project Related V/C Increase
           C                                     < 0.70 – 0.80                           Equal to or greater than 0.040
           D                                     < 0.80 – 0.90                           Equal to or greater than 0.020
           E and F                               0.90 or more                            Equal to or greater than 0.010


           Source: Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation
           Notes: *Final V/C is the V/C ratio at an intersection, considering impacts from the project, ambient growth trips from
           area/cumulative projects, but without proposed traffic impact mitigations.



            All of the study intersections are currently operating at good levels of service (LOS D or
            better) during the weekday AM and PM peak hours. The Vermont Avenue/Olympic
            Boulevard intersection is the only intersection operating at LOS D during both the
            weekday AM and PM peak hours.

            Project Trip Generation

            The number of trips generated by the proposed project was based upon the Institute of
            Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Manual, 9th Edition. Trip rates for middle school
            facilities (ITE Land Use Code 522) were utilized to calculate the trip generation for the
            proposed project uses. See Table 17 for a summary of trip generation factors and
            distribution. The project would generate a total of 243 weekday daily trips with
            approximately 81 AM peak hour trips and 24 PM peak hour trips.


                                                           Table 17
                                              Project Trip Generation Summary

                                                                   Daily               AM Peak                           PM Peak
        Land Use                  Intensity        Units           Total         Total   In    Out                 Total   In    Out
  Trip Generation Rates
  Middle School                         -         students          1.62          0.54       55%        45%         0.16       49%       51%
  Trip Generation Estimates
  Middle School                        150*       students           243           81         45         36          24         12        12

  Source: Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation
  Notes: * The proposed project will include the addition of 105 students, future traffic conditions were projected using 150 students, creating
  a conservative projection




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                                  95                                     Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Existing Plus Project Scenario

            Traffic volumes for the Existing Plus Project conditions were derived by adding the net
            project trips to the existing traffic volumes. Four of the study intersections are projected
            to operate at a good level of service (LOS D or better) under Existing Plus Project
            conditions during the weekday AM and PM peak hours. The Vermont Avenue/Olympic
            Boulevard intersection is projected to be the only intersection to degrade in operations
            from LOS D to LOS E with Project traffic, which would occur during the weekday AM
            peak hour. Table 18 Intersections LOS Summary – Existing Plus Project, provides a
            summary of potential impacts that would occur under the Existing Plus Project
            condition. As shown, the proposed project would not contribute to an increase in V/C
            that would exceed the criteria provided in Table 10. As such, impacts would be less than
            significant under the Existing Plus Project condition.



                                                    Table 18
                                Intersections LOS Summary – Existing Plus Project

                                                           Existing          Existing (2014)
                                                          Conditions          Plus Project
                                                Peak         (2014)           Conditions         Change         Significant
               Study Intersections              Hour     V/C      LOS        V/C       LOS       in V/C           Impact
       1      Berendo St./Olympic Blvd.         AM      0.442          A     0.447      A          0.005             No
                                                PM      0.507          A     0.508      A          0.001             No
       2      Vermont Ave./Olympic Blvd.        AM      0.898          D     0.901      E          0.003             No
                                                PM      0.865          D     0.865      E          0.000             No
       3      Normandie   Ave./11th       St.   AM      0.462          A     0.465      A          0.003             No
                                                PM      0.617          B     0.619      C          0.002             No
       4      Vermont   Ave./11th   St.         AM      0.593          A     0.600      B          0.007             No
                                                PM      0.544          A     0.546      B          0.002             No
       5      Vermont Ave./Pico Blvd.           AM      0.782          C     0.785      D          0.003             No
                                                PM      0.724          C     0.725      D          0.001             No


       Source: Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation




            Future Conditions

            For the analysis of background traffic for year 2016, a traffic growth factor of 1.0 percent
            was utilized to provide for increases in traffic from the existing (2014) traffic volumes.
            To apply this ambient growth rate to the existing traffic volumes, a factor of 1 percent
            annually was utilized. This factor simulates a 1 percent increase over the one-year
            period between existing (2014) and future (2016) conditions. Related projects were
            identified in coordination with LADOT. Project traffic, as identified in Table 18, above,
            was then added to determine Future with Project conditions. Table 19, Intersection


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                             96                              Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration



            Level of Service (LOS) Summary provides a summary of LOS for existing conditions,
            Future Without Project and Future With Project Scenarios.



                                                      Table 19
                                   Intersection Level of Service (LOS) Summary

                                                   Existing            Future No     Future w/
                                                  Conditions             Project      Project
                                      Peak          (2014)               (2016)        (2016)        Change        Significant
        Study Intersections           Hour        V/C     LOS          V/C    LOS   V/C     LOS      in V/C          Impact
 1     Berendo St./Olympic Blvd.        AM        0.442      A         0.445   A    0.447     A        0.004            No
                                        PM        0.507      A         0.537   A    0.539     A        0.002            No
 2     Vermont Ave./Olympic Blvd.       AM        0.898      D         0.960   E    0.964     E        0.004            No
                                        PM        0.865      D         0.964   E    0.965     E        0.001            No
 3     Normandie Ave./11th St.          AM        0.462      A         0.554   A    0.558     A        0.004            No
                                        PM        0.617      B         0.750   C    0.752     C        0.002            No
 4     Vermont Ave./11th St.            AM        0.593      A         0.609   B    0.621     B        0.012            No
                                        PM        0.544      A         0.589   A    0.593     A        0.004            No
 5     Vermont Ave./Pico Blvd.          AM        0.782      C         0.821   D    0.823     D        0.002            No
                                        PM        0.724      C         0.805   D    0.805     D        0.000            No


 Source: Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation



            As shown in Table 19, under the Future Without Project Condition, with the exception
            of the Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection, the study intersections are
            projected to continue to operate at good levels of service (LOS D or better) for the
            analyzed scenario. The Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection is projected to
            degrade from LOS D to LOS E in both analyzed peak hours with the addition of ambient
            growth and trip generation from area projects. Under the Future With Project Condition,
            with the exception of the Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection, the study
            intersections are projected to continue to operate at good levels of service (LOS D or
            better) for this scenario.

            Under the Future With Project condition, impacts are determined by comparing the
            future without-Project conditions to the future with-Project conditions. As shown in
            Table 19, the proposed project would not result in a significant impact at any of the
            studied intersection under this scenario. Therefore impacts would be less than
            significant and no further analysis is required.

            b)      Less Than Significant Impact. The Congestion Management Program (CMP)
            was created statewide as a result of Proposition 111 and has been implemented locally
            by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA). The
            CMP for Los Angeles County requires that the traffic impact of individual development
            projects of potential regional significance be analyzed. A specific system of arterial


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                            97                            Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                                      Mitigated Negative Declaration



            roadways plus all freeways comprise the CMP system. A total of 164 intersections are
            identified for monitoring on the system in Los Angeles County. The two CMP freeway
            monitoring stations closest to the project site are located at the intersections of Wilshire
            Boulevard and Alvarado Street and Wilshire Boulevard and Western Avenue,
            approximately 1.5 and 1.7 miles northeast and northwest of the project site, respectively.

            The following must be included in a traffic impact analysis, at minimum: all CMP-
            monitoring locations, including monitored freeway on- or off-ramp intersections,55
            where the proposed project would add 50 or more trips during either the AM or PM
            weekday peak hours; all arterial segments where the proposed project would add 50 or
            more peak-hour trips, if CMP arterial segments are being analyzed rather than
            intersections; mainline freeway locations where the proposed project would add 150 or
            more trips, in either direction, during either the AM or PM weekday peak hours; and
            any other locations that California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) determines
            relevant and necessary.

            Based on the project trip generation and the distance of this location from the project
            site, it is not expected that 50 or more new trips per hour would be added at these CMP
            intersections.56 Therefore, CMP freeway and arterial intersection analyses are not
            required and no significant CMP impact is identified. No further analysis is needed.

            c)     No Impact. The uses proposed by the project are not associated with a
            substantial increase in air traffic. The project is not located within an airport safety zone
            nor does the project propose any structure that will conflict with air traffic patterns.
            No impact will occur and no further analysis is needed.

            d)      Less Than Significant Impact. The proposed project would utilize the existing
            network of regional and local roadways that serve the project area. No major changes to
            the design or configuration of roadways surrounding the project site are planned. The
            final design of the proposed project, including curb cuts, ingress, egress, and other
            streetscape changes, would be subject to review by the Los Angeles Department of
            Building Public Works and the Department of Transportation and would be required to
            comply with requirements of those agencies.

            The proposed project site access scheme for student drop-off and pick-up operations has
            been planned to minimize potential vehicular queuing on the local street system, conflict
            with the existing Berendo Middle School drop-off and pick-up operations, as well as to
            address safety issues associated with student drop-off and pick-up operations.




55 There are no freeway CPM monitoring stations in the vicinity of the project site
56 Traffic Impact Study for MORCS, prepared by KOA Corporation, 2014


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    98                              Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                        August 2014
                                                                                    Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The following was concluded from a queuing analysis conducted by KOA for the
            proposed project pick-up/drop-off area:

                  The total peak inbound trip demand during the morning peak hour will be
                   134 vehicles, for the entire charter school operation once constructed and
                   operational.

                  Assuming a 25-second average unloading time per vehicle, the service rate of the
                   pick-up/drop-off area would be (60 minutes x 60 seconds or 3600) / 25 seconds),
                   equaling 144 vehicles/hour.

                  A queuing analysis of this data indicated that a probable queue would be slightly
                   more than 13 vehicles. A faster loading time for some vehicles would lower this total
                   queue.

            The expected average queue, based on project volumes, is expected to not exceed the
            pick-up/drop-off area storage length under normal and typical conditions.57
            Furthermore, peak access times to the underground parking structure by staff vehicles
            will occur before student drop-off times and after pick-up times, due to typical staff
            schedules. Therefore, conflicts are not anticipated between access to the garage and
            student drop-off/pick-up activity.

            As discussed above due to the existing width of 11th street and the surrounding
            sidewalks it is not feasible to provide a separate curbed vehicle lane to be used for the
            student drop-off and pick-up area. In lieu of a separated vehicular lane, the applicant
            will request that LADOT modifies the parking signage and curb color designation on
            West 11th Street. In addition, the school shall implement a Safety Valet Program (as
            discussed above) during pick-up and drop-off times.

            The project driveway for the underground parking structure would be on 11 th Street.
            The driveway has open areas at the approach to 11th Street where sight lines down each
            sidewalk are provided, in order to prevent potential for hazardous pedestrian safety
            conditions. Parabolic mirrors at the entrance to the underground parking structure shall
            be installed if feasible for better visibility of approaching pedestrians, as well as the
            consideration of warning light system. With incorporation of these design features,
            related impacts would be reduced to less than significant.

            The Dewey Avenue/11th Street and Berendo Street/11th Street intersections are
            unsignalized, all-way stop control intersections. All-way stop control provides for safe
            crossing points for pedestrians. Figure 8, Pedestrian Routes for Berendo Middle
            School, shows the City-generated pedestrian routes for Berendo Middle School.



57 As described above the pick-up/drop-off area will be approximately 250 feet long and extend from the end of the
   red curb at the intersection of Berendo Street and 11th Street to the western end of the project site, terminating
   before the entrance to the underground parking garage.

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    99                             Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                       August 2014
                                                                                                                                                                 11 TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11 TH ST
                                            MARIPO SA AVE




                                                                                                                                      DEWE Y AV E
                                                                                                                                                    BERENDO MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE RMON T AV E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MENLO AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                              12TH S T
                                                                                                                   KENMO RE AV E




                                                                                                                                                          CATALINA ST
                                                                            FE DO RA S T




                                                                                                                                   Parents:                                                         Estimados Padres:
                                    Legend
                                                                                                                                   This map shows the recommended crossings to be                   Este mapa muestra los cruzados recomendados para los
                                           Recommended Crossing                                                                    used from each block in your school attendance area.             peatones de cada cuadra en la area de su escuela.
                                           Stop Sign                                                                               Following the arrows, select the best route from your            Siguiendo las flechas en el mapa, selecione la ruta mas
                                                                                                                                   home to the school and mark it with a colored pencil             segura de su casa a la Escuela y marquelo con un lapis
                                           Traffic Signal
                                                                                                                                   or crayon. This is the route your child should take.             o tiza de color. Esta es la ruta que su hijo (a) debe de usar.
                                                            MARIPO SA AVE




                                                                                                           KENMO RE AV E




                                           Crossing Guard                                                                                                                      BERE NDO S T
                                                                                                                                   Instruct your child to use this route and to cross streets       Digale a su hijo (a) que use esta ruta y que cruce las calles
                                                                                           FE DO RA S T




                                                                                                                                   only at locations shown. You and your child should               solamente en los lugares indicados. Usted y su hijo (a)
                                                                                                                                   become familiar with the route by walking it together.           deberian de familiarizarce con esta ruta. Obedezcan los




                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMP S HIRE AVE
                                           Flashing Warning Light
                                                                                                                                   Obey marked crosswalks, stop signs, traffic signals              rotulos de peatones, de altos, semaforos y todos los señales
                                           Stairs or Walkway                                          0   250              500     and other traffic controls. Crossing points have been            de trafico. Puntos para cruzar estan localizados en areas
                                           Pedestrian Bridge                                                                       located at these controls wherever possible, even                controladas, aunque sea necesario de alargar el tiempo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENLO AVE
                                                                                                          Feet                     though a longer walk may be necessary. Instruct your             para cruzar. Instruye a su hijo (a) que siempre se fije de
                                           Pedestrian Tunnel
                                                                                                                                   child to always look both ways before crossing the               los dos lados antes de cruzar la calle. El estudiante debe
                                           Parks                                                                                   street. If no sidewalk exists, your child should walk            de siempre caminar en la direccion opuesta del trafico
                                                                                                                                   facing traffic.                                                  si no existe una banqueta.

SOURCE: City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation and LAUSD OEHS, July 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIGURE   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pedestrian Routes for Berendo Middle School
1107.003•08/14
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            To accommodate the MORCS parking garage entrance on 11th Street, students attending
            Berendo Middle School and MORCS will be encouraged to walk on the north side of 11 th
            Street and cross at Berendo Street as oppose to crossing at Kenmore Avenue or Dewey
            Avenue. This will ensure limited (if any) interaction between students walking to either
            school and faculty and administrative staff entering/exiting the parking garage.
            Thus impacts related to pedestrian safety would be less than significant.

            The project will therefore not create new hazards due to design features or incompatible
            uses. Impacts would be less than significant and no additional analysis would be
            required.

            e)      Less Than Significant Impact. The project is not anticipated to interfere with an
            emergency response plan or evacuation plan. The proposed project would be developed
            in consultation with the Fire Department and will comply with all applicable access
            standards during construction and operation. Therefore, the impact would be less than
            significant and no further study is required.

            Construction of the proposed project could result in temporary partial obstruction of
            adjacent roadways. As construction activities would be temporary and the applicant
            would comply with applicable LAFD, LAPD, Department of Public Works, and
            Department of Building and Safety regulations relating to access, impacts would be less
            than significant and no further analysis is required.

            f)      Less Than Significant Impact. The County of Los Angeles Metropolitan Transit
            Authority (Metro) Red Line Vermont/Beverly station and the Metro Red and Purple
            Lines Wilshire/Vermont station are located within approximately 2.0 miles and 1 mile
            north of the project site, respectively. Multiple bus lines, including local and rapid bus
            lines run along Vermont Avenue, Pico Boulevard, and Olympic Boulevard provide
            access and transfer opportunities to the surrounding neighborhoods. These routes could
            be used by school employees, visitors, and students. Construction and operation of the
            proposed project would not interfere with bus stops, bicycle facilities, or other
            alternative transportation. The proposed project will include bicycle racks located on the
            project site to encourage use of bicycles for transportation to and from the site.
            Therefore, the proposed project would encourage travel by alternative modes of
            transportation and would not conflict with the policies supporting alternative
            transportation or with existing transit routes. For these reasons, impacts related to
            alternative transportation would be less than significant, and no further analysis is
            necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                              101                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                            Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                                 Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                         Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                           Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
XVII.       UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would
            the project:

            a)          Exceed wastewater treatment
                        requirements of the applicable
                        Regional Water Quality Control Board?

            b)          Require or result in the construction of
                        new water or wastewater treatment
                        facilities or expansion of existing
                        facilities, the construction of which
                        could cause significant environmental
                        effects?

            c)          Require or result in the construction of
                        new storm water drainage facilities or
                        expansion of existing facilities, the
                        construction of which could cause
                        significant environmental effects?

            d)          Have sufficient water supplies
                        available to serve the project from
                        existing entitlements and resources, or
                        are new or expanded entitlements
                        needed? In making this determination,
                        the City shall consider whether the
                        project is subject to the water supply
                        assessment requirements of Water
                        Code Section 10910, et. seq. (SB 610),
                        and the requirements of Government
                        Code Section 664737 (SB 221).

            e)          Result in a determination by the
                        wastewater treatment provider which
                        serves or may serve the project that it
                        has adequate capacity to serve the
                        project's projected demand in addition
                        to the provider's existing
                        commitments?

            f)          Be served by a landfill with sufficient
                        permitted capacity to accommodate the
                        project's solid waste disposal needs?

            g)          Comply with federal, state, and local
                        statutes and regulations related to solid
                        waste?




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                              102                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                              August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



Responses:

            a)     Less Than Significant Impact. Wastewater from the City of Los Angeles is
            treated at the Hyperion Treatment Plan (HTP) in Playa del Rey. The wastewater
            treatment facility has been designed to treat typical wastewater effluent generated by
            educational uses. The LARWQCB regulates the treatment of wastewater at treatment
            plants and the discharge of the treated wastewater into receiving waters. The HTP is
            responsible for adhering to LARWQCB regulations as they apply to wastewater
            generated by the proposed project.

            The wastewater treatment facility receives approximately 362 million gallons of
            wastewater per day (mgd), and maintains a 450 mgd design capacity.58 The proposed
            project would generate wastewater effluent typical of educational uses. Therefore, the
            proposed project would not generate wastewater that would exceed the wastewater
            treatment requirements of the LARWQCB. The anticipated impact would be less than
            significant and no further study is needed.

            b)          Less Than Significant Impact.

            Water

            The City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) provides water
            service to the project site. Water is conveyed to users in the project area along several
            circulating water mains of varying sizes. The applicant will be required to install a
            dedicated above ground reduced pressure principle assembly (backflow preventer)59
            and an underground detector check in vault at Berendo Street, as well as a 3-inch water
            meter. The applicant will be responsible for any modifications to the existing on-site
            water lines as necessary.

            Implementation of the proposed project would result in an incremental increase to water
            demand at the project site as capacity would increase from 339 students to 405 students.
            One of the three existing water mains, including a 6-inch water main located along
            Berendo Street, a 6-inch water main located along 12th Street, or a 8-inch water main
            located along 11th Street would serve the proposed project for both domestic and fire
            service.60 Water supply lines in the vicinity of the project site are sufficient to supply the
            anticipated water needs of the proposed project. Further, the LADWP can generally



58 City of Los Angeles, LA Bureau of Sanitation, Wastewater Facts and Figures, http://lacitysan.org/
   wastewater/factsfigures.htm, April 23, 2014
59 LAUSD requires that new schools have dual domestic water backflow preventers so that maintenance can be
   performed on the backflow preventers without shutting down the schools water system.
60 LADWP, Business Arrangement Group of Water Distribution Engineering Services, verbal communication with
      Kathy Liaskowsky, April 8, 2014

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   103                      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                             Mitigated Negative Declaration



            supply water to development projects within its service area, except under
            extraordinary circumstances.

            The LADWP has an ongoing program of facility replacement and upgrades to meet the
            anticipated water demands based upon the City’s adopted General Plan Framework.
            The proposed project would modify the existing on-site water lines as necessary and
            would connect to existing lines described above. The project plans would be reviewed
            by the LADWP to determine if any additional infrastructure is needed on- or off-site.
            As discussed above, the project applicant would comply with all applicable LADWP
            regulations. Therefore, the project’s impacts to the existing water distribution system
            would be less than significant and no further analysis is needed.

            Wastewater

            The City of Los Angeles Department of Public Works provides sewer service to the
            project site. An existing underground 8-inch sewer line runs from the southern to the
            northern portion of the existing middle school campus until reaching a main a sewer
            main at 11th Street. As the 8-inch local line runs directly in line with the proposed
            underground parking garage, a portion of the sewer line will need to be relocated to the
            west side of the parking garage. Installation of four sewer manholes and over 200 feet of
            8-inch cast iron sewer pipe will also be installed, as well as 500 feet of new cast iron
            sewer pipe to accommodate the proposed project, including the parking garage.
            The applicant will be responsible for all costs associated with the installation of the
            proposed sewer lines.61

            No new sewer connections into 11th Street or Berendo Street are anticipated, however to
            handle increased wastewater flow, some lines may need to be replaced with lines of
            greater capacity, or additional lines may need to be installed. Major wastewater facility
            upgrades are based on the City’s General Plan Framework and SCAG regional
            projections. Therefore, any potential increases in wastewater flows from the project site
            following implementation of the proposed project implementation into local sewer lines
            and the treatment plant have already been incorporated into future expansion plans.

            Implementation of the proposed project will require that the applicant coordinate with
            the City Department of Public Works regarding design, operation, and maintenance of
            proposed project components. No new sewer connections are anticipated, however, if
            new sewer connections are necessary, the applicant would be required to pay sewage
            connection fees and make any necessary upgrades to the wastewater collection and
            treatment system to provide relief for existing lines nearing capacity. The proposed
            project would be required to comply with the City’s Water Conservation Ordinance
            Nos. 165,004, 165,615, 166,080, and subsequent ordinances. Buildout of the proposed
            project would not require or result in the construction of new wastewater facilities or


61 Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School, Schematic Design, prepared by gkk works


Impact Sciences, Inc.                              104                             Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            expansion of existing facilities. Therefore, impacts to the existing wastewater treatment
            system would be less than significant.

            c)      Less Than Significant Impact. The storm drainage system in the Los Angeles
            basin is designed to reduce and prevent possible flooding from storm water on City
            streets. The existing site drains, via sheet flow, from south to north. Stormwater is
            impeded by going over the public sidewalk due to the existing retaining walls fronting
            11th Street. The water is directed into multiple drain inlets along the retaining wall and
            continues into an existing underground concrete culvert where it drains into the City’s
            stormwater collection and conveyance system.

            Following project buildout, the project site would be covered almost entirely with
            impervious surfaces, with the exception of landscaped areas. The project would be
            designed with drainage systems, such as concrete culverts, an underground storm drain
            system, drain inlets, and roof drain downspouts that would direct storm water flows to
            the existing and proposed on-site catch basins and then to the municipal storm drains.
            Storm water drainage plans would be submitted to the City of Los Angeles Department
            of Public Works for review and approval prior to the development of any drainage
            improvements. These plans must meet all requirements for the City’s municipal separate
            stormwater sewer system permit, so that no impact to water quality at downstream
            facilities would occur. In addition, the proposed project would comply with all
            applicable water quality standards and waste discharge requirements. Consequently,
            the construction or expansion of new or existing stormwater drainage facilities is not
            anticipated, and the impact of the proposed project on storm water drainage facilities
            would be less than significant. No further analysis is required.

            d)      Less Than Significant Impact. Senate Bill 221 and Senate Bill 610 amended
            existing California law regarding land use planning and water supply availability by
            requiring more information and assurance of supply than is currently required in an
            Urban Water Management Plan (UWMP). As of January 1, 2002, California law requires
            water retail providers, like the LADWP, to demonstrate that sufficient and reliable
            supplies are available to serve large-scale developments (i.e., 500 dwelling units or
            500,000 square feet of commercial space) prior to completion of the environmental
            review process and approval of such large-scale projects.

            Under SB 610, it is the responsibility of the water service provider to prepare a Water
            Supply Assessment requested by a City or County for any “project” defined by Section
            10912 of the Water Code that is subject to CEQA.

            Section 10912 of the Water Code defines a “project” as

                  a proposed residential development of more than 500 dwelling units;

                  a proposed shopping center or business establishment employing more than
                   1,000 persons or having more than 500,000 square feet of floor space;

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                105                      Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



                  a proposed commercial office building employing more than 1,000 persons or having
                   more than 250,000 square feet of floor space;

                  a proposed hotel or motel, or both, having more than 500 rooms;

                  a proposed industrial, manufacturing or processing plant, or industrial park,
                   planned to house more than 1,000 persons, occupying more than 40 acres of land, or
                   having more than 650,000 square feet of floor space;

                  a proposed mixed-use project that includes one or more of the previously listed
                   projects; or

                  a proposed project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater
                   than, the amount of water required by a 500-dwelling-unit project.

            The proposed project would not meet any of the criteria resulting in the need for a water
            supply assessment; therefore, no Water Supply Assessment is needed.

            The California Urban Management Planning Act requires every municipal water
            supplier who serves more than 3,000 customers or provides more than 3,000 acre-feet
            per year (afy) of water to prepare an Urban Water Management Plan (UWMP). The 2010
            UWMP prepared by LADWP includes estimates of past, current, and projected probable
            and recycled water use, identifies conservation and reclamation measures currently in
            practice, describes alternative conservation measures, and provides an urban water
            shortage contingency plan. According to LADWP, there are adequate supplies available
            to serve City needs through 2035.62

            Buildout of the proposed project would create an increase in demand for water supplies
            compared to existing uses on the project site. Based on the City of Los Angeles CEQA
            Thresholds Guide wastewater generation factor for education uses of 8 gallons per
            student per day,63 the proposed project would result in the increase of 66 students on
            the site. This increase would result in an additional daily water demand of 528 (8 * 66)
            gallons and an annual demand of 192,720 gallons. As stated in the CEQA Thresholds
            Guide, wastewater generation is assumed to be 100 percent of water consumption for a
            given land use. This is a conservative estimate of the additional water demand that
            would be generated by the proposed project, as the proposed project would not generate
            peak water or wastewater demand 365 days a year, as demand would only be generated
            while school is in session. This increase in demand is not substantial and is not expected
            to significantly affect water supply.




62 City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, 2010 Urban Water Management Plan, Exhibit ES-R
63 City of Los Angeles CEQA Thresholds Guide, Sewage Generation Factors, Exhibit M.2-12


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                106                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The proposed project would comply with the following state laws requiring water-
            efficient plumbing fixtures and structures:

                  California Health and Safety Code Section 17921.3, Installation of low-flush toilets
                   and urinals.

                  Title 20, California Administrative Code Section 1604(f) (Appliance Efficiency
                   Standards) Compliance with efficiency standards for the maximum flow rate of all
                   new showerhead, lavatory faucets, and sink faucets.

                  Title 24, California Administrative Code Section 2-5307(b). California Energy
                   Conservation Standards for New Buildings Installation only of fixtures certified to
                   comply with the CEC flow rate standards.

                  Title 24, California Administrative Code Section 2-5352 (i) and (f) Compliance with
                   requirements for the installation of pipe that can reduce water used before hot water
                   reaches equipment or fixtures. These requirements apply to steam and steam-
                   condensate return piping and recirculating hot water piping in unheated spaces
                   other than between floors or in interior walls. Insulation of water-heating systems is
                   also required.

            Thus, sufficient water supplies are expected to be available to serve the proposed project
            from existing entitlements and resources. For the reasons discussed above,
            implementation of the proposed project would have a less than significant impact
            associated with water demand. No further analysis is required.

            e)      Less Than Significant Impact. The Hyperion Treatment Plant (HTP) has a dry
            weather design capacity of 450 million gallons per day (mgd) for full secondary
            treatment.64 The HTP is currently processing 362 million gallons per day, which is
            88 mgd below capacity. As discussed above, the proposed project would generate a
            projected 528 gallons of wastewater per day, based on the assumption that wastewater
            equals 100 percent of water demand for a given land use. Because the HTP operates at
            88 mgd under capacity, the additional 528 gallons per day of effluent generated by the
            proposed project could be accommodated without physical improvements or upgrades
            to the system capacity or its operation. This minimal increase in students is not expected
            to significantly impact the HTP. Therefore, impacts would be less than significant and
            no further analysis is required.

            f)     Less Than Significant Impact. In 1989, the State of California passed the
            California Integrated Waste Management Act (CIWMA) in response to reduced landfill
            capacity. This legislation (generally known by the name of the enacting bill AB 939)
            required cities and counties to reduce the amount of solid wastes entering existing

64 City of Los Angeles, LA Bureau of Sanitation, Wastewater Facts and Figures, http://lacitysan.org/wastewater/
   factsfigures.htm

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                 107                          Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



            landfills, through recycling, reuse and waste prevention efforts. AB 939 required every
            city and county in the state to prepare a Source Reduction and Recycling Element to its
            Solid Waste Management Plan that identified how each jurisdiction would meet the
            mandatory state waste diversion goals of 25 percent by the year 1995 and 50 percent by
            the year 2000. On June 30, 2008, the State Assembly amended Senate Bill 1252 to include
            further waste diversion goals of 60 percent by the year 2015 and 75 percent by the year
            2025.65 The purpose of AB 939 was to “reduce, recycle, and re-use solid waste generated
            in the state to the maximum extent feasible.” In 2012, the City of Los Angeles diverted
            approximately 76.4 percent of waste generated within the City from landfills.66

            Construction of the proposed project would generate minimal amounts of construction
            and demolition debris. Waste materials generated during construction are expected to
            be typical construction debris, including concrete, stucco, asphalt, rocks, building
            materials, wood, paper, glass, plastic, metals, cardboard, and other inert wastes
            (i.e., wastes that are not likely to produce leachates of environmental concern), as well as
            green wastes. Much of this debris would be recycled and salvaged to the greatest extent
            possible. Waste generated during demolition and construction that is not recycled
            would result in an incremental and intermittent increase in solid waste disposal at
            landfills and other waste disposal facilities generally within Los Angeles County,
            including the Sunshine Canyon Landfill. In October of 2012 the Sunshine Landfill had
            approximately 33 percent remaining capacity.67 Given the available capacity at the
            Sunshine Landfill and the number of additional landfills which accept waste from the
            City, (including Chiquita Canyon Landfill, Simi Valley Landfill and Recycling Center,
            and Lancaster Landfill and Recycling Center) demolition and construction debris
            impacts to solid waste facilities would be less than significant. This additional solid
            waste represents a negligible fraction of the solid waste generated within the region and,
            therefore, would not significantly impact available landfill capacity. No further analysis
            is necessary.

            Solid waste generated by the proposed project, which is not diverted would be disposed
            of at a Class III landfill. Solid waste service in the City of Los Angeles is provided by the
            Department of Public Works Bureau of Sanitation (BOS). A majority of the City’s solid
            waste is disposed of in the Sunshine Canyon Landfill.68




65 CWIMB, Senate Bill 1252 Amendment, June 30, 2008.
66 City of Los Angeles, 2013 Zero Waste Progress Report, http://www.forester.net/pdfs/City_of_LA_Zero_Waste
   _Progress_Report.pdf
67 Cal     Recycle,   Facility/Site Summary        Details, Sunshine     Canyon      City/County    Landfill,
   http://www.calrecycle.ca.gov/SWFacilities/Directory/19-AA-2000/Detail/
68 City of Los Angeles, 2013 Zero Waste Progress Report, http://www.forester.net/pdfs/City_of_LA_Zero_
   Waste_Progress_Report.pdf

Impact Sciences, Inc.                                108                          Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                           Mitigated Negative Declaration



            The increase in student population would result in 63 pounds of refuse per day
            (66 * 0.6 lb/person/day), or approximately 7.23 tons per year (14,454 lb / 2,000). These
            quantities do not account for any diverted waste or recycling activities.

            Project implementation would include a solid waste diversion program (e.g., adequate
            areas for collecting and loading recyclables) and would result in the project meeting at
            least the minimum recycling level established by Los Angeles County in accordance
            with AB 939. Meeting the City of Los Angeles’ 2012 diversion levels (76.4. percent, the
            most current rate available) would result in the project sending approximately 1.77 tons
            of waste to local landfills annually. This increase in demand represents a negligible
            fraction of the solid waste generated within the region and, therefore, would not
            significantly impact available landfill capacity. No further analysis is necessary.

            g)     Less Than Significant Impact. During construction and operation of the project,
            the applicant would comply with all applicable City, County, and State solid waste
            diversion, reduction, and recycling mandates, including compliance with the City’s
            Source Reduction and Recycling Element (SRRE), the City of Los Angeles Solid Waste
            Management Policy Plan (CiSWMPP), and the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
            Compliance with these regulations and mandates would assist in reducing the amount
            of waste deposited in local landfills. Therefore, impacts related to regulatory compliance
            would be less than significant, and no further analysis is necessary.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                              109                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                             August 2014
                                                                                          Mitigated Negative Declaration


                                 Issues:                               Potentially    Less Than       Less Than           No
                                                                       Significant    Significant     Significant       Impact
                                                                         Impact          With           Impact
                                                                                      Mitigation
                                                                                     Incorporated
XVIII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF
            SIGNIFICANCE

            a)          Does the project have the potential to
                        degrade the quality of the
                        environment, substantially reduce the
                        habitat of a fish or wildlife species,
                        cause a fish or wildlife population to
                        drop below self-sustaining levels,
                        threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
                        community, substantially reduce the
                        number or restrict the range of a rare or
                        endangered plant or animal or
                        eliminate important examples of the
                        major periods of California history or
                        prehistory?

            b)          Does the project have impacts which
                        are individually limited, but
                        cumulatively considerable?
                        (“Cumulatively considerable” means
                        that incremental effects of an
                        individual project are considerable
                        when viewed in connection with the
                        effects of past projects, the effects of
                        other current projects, and the effects of
                        probable future projects.

            c)          Does the project have environmental
                        effects which cause substantial adverse
                        effects on human beings, either directly
                        or indirectly?




Responses:

            a)      Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. As discussed in
            Sections I. Aesthetics, IV. Biological Resources and V. Cultural Resources, the project
            would neither degrade the quality of the environment nor affect any endangered fauna
            or flora. Because of the highly urbanized nature of the project site and the surrounding
            area, the project would not impact the habitat or population level of fish or wildlife
            species, nor would it threaten a plant or animal community, nor impact the range of a
            rare or endangered plant or animal. Potential impacts related to archaeological and
            paleontological resources would be reduced to less than significant levels with
            implementation of the required mitigation measures, and impacts related to historic
            resources would be less than significant.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                            110                         Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                            August 2014
                                                                         Mitigated Negative Declaration



            b)      Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Based on the
            preceding discussion in Sections III Air Quality, XII Noise, and XVI Traffic, with
            implementation of the required mitigation measures, the proposed project would not
            result in any unmitigated significant adverse impacts which could contribute to a
            cumulatively considerable impact.

            c)      Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. As discussed in
            the above analyses in Sections III Air Quality, VI Geology and Soils, VIII Hazards and
            Hazardous Materials, and XIV Public Services, for the project, with implementation of
            the required mitigation measures, the proposed project would not result in any
            unmitigated significant adverse impacts. Thus, the project would not have the potential
            to result in substantial adverse effect on human beings.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                             111                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                           August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



MITIGATION MEASURES

Aesthetics

(Required to reduce potential impacts to a less than significant level.)

AES-1                   Outdoor lighting shall be designed and installed with downcast shielding to
                        reduce light impacts on adjacent properties. YPI/PCSD shall reduce the lighting
                        intensity from the proposed project on adjacent residences to no more than 2
                        foot-candles, measured at the residential property line. To achieve this result,
                        YPI/PCSD may use hoods, filtering louvers, glare shields, and/or landscaping as
                        may be necessary to achieve the standard. Lamp enclosure and poles shall also
                        be painted to reduce reflection.

AES-2                   YPI/PCSD shall utilize non-reflective building materials in the construction of the
                        proposed project.

Cultural Resources (Archaeological and Paleontological Resources)

(Require adherence to existing regulations.)

CR-1:                   In the event that archaeological resources are uncovered on the project site
                        during grading or other construction activities, the construction contractor will
                        notify the project applicant (YPI/PCSD) and LAUSD’s Office of Environmental
                        Health and Safety (OEHS) immediately and work must stop within a 100-foot
                        radius until a qualified archeologist has evaluated the find. Construction activity
                        may continue unimpeded on other portions of the project site. If the find is
                        determined by the qualified archeologist to be a unique archeological resource,
                        as defined by Section 2103.2 of the Public Resources Code, the site shall be
                        treated in accordance with the provisions of Section 21083.2 of the Public
                        Resources Code. If the find is determined not to be a unique archeological
                        resource, no further action is necessary and construction may continue.

CR-2:                   If paleontological resources are uncovered during excavation of the project site,
                        the construction contractor will notify YPI/PCSD, LAUSD’s OEHS, and the
                        Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County Vertebrate Paleontology
                        Section immediately and work must stop within 100 feet of the find to allow a
                        qualified paleontologist to appropriately remove the find.

CR-3                    If during excavation of the project site human remains are discovered, the
                        construction contractor will notify LAUSD’s OEHS immediately and the steps
                        described in State CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5(e) shall be followed.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   112                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                              Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        (1) There shall be no further excavation or disturbance of the site or any nearby
                            area reasonably suspected to overlie adjacent human remains until:

                           (A) The coroner of the County in which the remains are discovered must be
                               contacted to determine that no investigation of the cause of death is
                               required, and

                           (B) If the coroner determines the remains to be Native American:

                               1. The coroner shall contact the Native American Heritage Commission
                                  within 24 hours.

                               2. The Native American Heritage Commission shall identify the person
                                  or persons it believes to be the most likely descended from the
                                  deceased Native American.

                               3. The most likely descendent may make recommendations to the
                                  landowner or the person responsible for the excavation work, for
                                  means of treating or disposing of, with appropriate dignity, the
                                  human remains and any associated grave goods as provided in Public
                                  Resources Code Section 5097.98, or

                        (2) Where the following conditions occur, the landowner or his authorized
                            representative shall rebury the Native American human remains and
                            associated grave goods with appropriate dignity on the property in a location
                            not subject to further subsurface disturbance. The applicant shall bear the
                            cost of implementing this mitigation.

                           (A) The Native American Heritage Commission is unable to identify a most
                               likely descendent or the most likely descendent failed to make a
                               recommendation within 24 hours after being notified by the commission.

                           (B) The descendant identified fails to make a recommendation; or

                           (C) The landowner or his authorized representative rejects the
                               recommendation of the descendant, and the mediation by the Native
                               American Heritage Commission fails to provide measures acceptable to
                               the landowner.

Geology and Soils

(Require adherence to existing regulations.)

GEO-1                   The project shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
                        requirements of Chapter 16 (Structural Design) of the 2013 California Code of


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                  113                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                August 2014
                                                                                 Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, Volume 2 (based on the International Building Code,
                        Chapter 16, Section 1613 – Earthquake Loads), and accepted engineering
                        practices.

GEO-2                   Prior to start of soil-disturbing activities at the site, the project applicant shall
                        obtain a General Permit for Discharges of Storm Water Associated with
                        Construction Activity to comply with the National Pollution Discharge
                        Elimination System (NPDES), to control erosion and pollution during
                        construction of the project. The project applicant shall prepare and submit a
                        Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to be administered throughout
                        project construction. The SWPPP must list Best Management Practice (BMP)
                        features that the discharger (project applicant) will use to protect storm water
                        runoff.

GEO-3                   All unpaved demolition and construction areas shall be wetted during
                        excavation, grading, and construction, and temporary dust covers shall be used
                        to reduce dust emissions and meet South Coast Air Quality Management District
                        Rule 403.

GEO-4                   The project applicant or general contractor shall keep the construction area
                        sufficiently damped to control dust caused by construction, hauling and at all
                        times provide reasonable control of dust caused by wind.

GEO-5                   All materials transported off-site shall either be sufficiently watered or securely
                        covered to prevent excessive amounts of dust and spillage. Management of
                        excavated soils are subject to oversight by OEHS; all testing shall be conducted in
                        compliance with District Specification 01 4524.

GEO-6                   All clearing, earthmoving, or excavation activities shall be suspended during
                        period of high winds (i.e., greater than 25 miles per hour over a 30-minute
                        period), so as to prevent excessive amounts of fugitive dust.

GEO-7                   All earthwork and grading, structural foundations, on grade slabs, retaining
                        walls, paving, temporary excavations and backfill, and surface drainage shall be
                        designed and constructed consistent with the recommendations provided in the
                        Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report prepared by Converse Consultants, August
                        2013. Specifically, design shall adhere to the recommendations in Section 8.0 Site
                        Grading and Earthwork Recommendations.

GEO-8                   The following procedures shall be followed if expansive soils are encountered on
                        the project site:

                           Pre-saturation of on-site compacted subgrade soils to an approximate
                            3 percent above optimum moisture content



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    114                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                   August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



                           Removal of approximately 1 foot of underlying soils to be replaced with
                            imported sandy material compact fill (with an Expansion Index of less
                            than 20)

                           All footing shall be reinforced and all concrete slabs shall include a moisture
                            barrier

Hazards and Hazardous Materials

(Require adherence to existing regulations.)

HAZ-1                   Asbestos and lead-based paint surveys shall be conducted on the buildings to be
                        demolished prior to the start of construction. In the event that asbestos and lead-
                        based paint are detected, they shall be abated in accordance with all applicable
                        rules and regulations. Abatement activities shall be completed to the satisfaction
                        of the appropriate regulatory agency(ies) prior to issuance of demolition permits
                        for the proposed project. Abatement of asbestos shall be conducted in accordance
                        with SCAQMD Rule 1403, Asbestos Emissions from Demolition/Renovation
                        Activities.

Hydrology and Water Quality

(Require adherence to existing regulations.)

HYD-1                   All construction waste shall be disposed properly. Use appropriately labeled
                        recycling bins to recycle construction materials including: solvents, water-based
                        paints, vehicle fluids, broken asphalt and concrete, wood, and vegetation.
                        Nonrecyclable materials/wastes shall be taken to an appropriate landfill. Toxic
                        wastes must be discarded at a licensed regulated disposal site.

HYD-2                   During construction, leaks, drips, and spills shall be cleaned up immediately to
                        prevent contaminated soil on paved surfaces that can be washed away into the
                        storm drain.

HYD-3                   During construction, where truck traffic is frequent, gravel approaches shall be
                        used to reduce soil compaction and limit the tracking of sediment into streets.

HYD-4                   All construction vehicle/equipment maintenance, repair, and washing shall be
                        conducted away from storm drains. All major repairs shall be conducted off-site.
                        Drip pans or drop cloths shall be used to catch drips and spills.

HYD-5                   During construction, appropriate erosion control and drainage devices shall be
                        incorporated such as interceptor terraces, berms, vee-channels, and inlet and
                        outlet structures.


Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   115                        Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
                                                                               Mitigated Negative Declaration



HYD-6                   Following construction and during operation of the project, post development
                        peak stormwater runoff discharge rates shall not exceed the estimated pre-
                        development rate for developments where the increase peak stormwater
                        discharge rate will result in increased potential for downstream erosion.

Noise

NOI-1                   The project shall comply with the City of Los Angeles Building Regulations
                        Ordinance No. 178048, which requires a construction site notice to be provided
                        that includes the following information: job site address, permit number, name
                        and phone number of the contractor and owner or owner’s agent, hours of
                        construction allowed by code or any discretionary approval for the site, and City
                        telephone numbers where violations can be reported. The notice shall be posted
                        and maintained at the construction site prior to the start of construction and
                        displayed in a location that is readily visible to the public.

NOI-2                   Construction and demolition activities shall be scheduled so as to avoid, to the
                        extent feasible, simultaneously operating several pieces of equipment that cause
                        high noise levels.

NOI-3                   The use of those pieces of construction equipment or construction methods with
                        the greatest peak noise generation potential shall be minimized. Examples
                        include the use of drills, jackhammers, and pile drivers.

NOI-4                   Noise and groundborne vibration construction activities whose specific location
                        on the site may be flexible (e.g., operation of compressors and generators, cement
                        mixing, general truck idling) shall be conducted as far as possible from the
                        nearest noise- and vibration-sensitive land uses, and natural and/or manmade
                        barriers (e.g., intervening construction trailers) shall be used to screen
                        propagation of noise from such activities towards these land uses to the
                        maximum extent possible.

NOI-5                   Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be
                        erected between the proposed project and homes across Berendo and West
                        11th Street to minimize the amount of noise during construction. These temporary
                        sound barriers shall be capable of achieving a sound attenuation of at least
                        13 dB(A) and block the line-of-sight between the project site and these adjacent
                        land uses.

NOI-6                   Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be
                        erected between the proposed project and the playgrounds to the south and west
                        of the project site to minimize the amount of noise during all construction
                        phases. These temporary sound barriers shall be capable of achieving a sound



Impact Sciences, Inc.                                   116                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                 August 2014
                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration



                        attenuation of at least 13 dB(A) and block the line-of-sight between the Project
                        site and these adjacent land uses.

NOI-7                   The project contractor shall use power construction equipment with state-of-the-
                        art noise shielding and muffling devices capable of attenuating sound by 3 dB(A)
                        or more.

NOI-8                   Demolition of concrete asphalt shall not be done during school hours when
                        children are playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and west of the project
                        site.

NOI-9                   All construction truck traffic shall be restricted to truck routes approved by the
                        City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, which shall avoid
                        residential areas and other sensitive receptors to the extent feasible.

NOI-10                  The construction staging area shall be as far from sensitive receptors as possible.

NOI-11                  Two weeks prior to commencement of construction, notification shall be
                        provided to the off-site residential, school, and church uses within 500 feet of the
                        project site that discloses the construction schedule, including the types of
                        activities and equipment that would be used throughout the duration of the
                        construction period.

NOI-12                  Any haul route for trucks disposing of demolished structures or concrete asphalt
                        material shall avoid residential streets to the extent possible.

NOI-13                  Grading and construction of the underground garage shall not be done during
                        school hours when children are playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and
                        west of the project site.




Impact Sciences, Inc.                                    117                       Monseñor Oscar Romero Charter School
1107.003                                                                                                  August 2014
          APPENDIX A
Air Quality Calculations
Summer Emissions Calculations
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                          Page 1 of 23                                             Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



                                                                          MORCS Charter School
                                                                 South Coast AQMD Air District, Summer

1.0 Project Characteristics

1.1 Land Usage

                Land Uses                                Size                            Metric                           Lot Acreage    Floor Surface Area      Population

          Junior High School                             66.00                          Student                              1.84            34,000.00               0


1.2 Other Project Characteristics

Urbanization         Urban                    Wind Speed (m/s)      2.2                       Precipitation Freq (Days)          31

Climate Zone         11                                                                       Operational Year                   2017


Utility Company      Los Angeles Department of Water & Power


CO2 Intensity        1227.89                  CH4 Intensity           0.029                   N2O Intensity                 0.006
(lb/MWhr)                                     (lb/MWhr)                                       (lb/MWhr)


1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data

Project Characteristics -
Land Use - Project is 3 buildings totalling 34,000 sqft on a 1.84 acre site. Allows the addition of 66 students to an existing school.
Construction Phase - Demo: 7/1/15-7/31/15
Grading: 8/1/15-8/30/15
Const: 9/1/15-11/1/16
Paving: 9/1/15-11/1/15
Coating: 10/1/16-11/1/16
Demolition - 4,000 sqft of structures demolished.
Grading - 8,700 cy of material removed.
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - Assume area is watered 3x per day per SCAQMD guidelines.
Mobile Land Use Mitigation -
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                       Page 2 of 23                     Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM

           Table Name                    Column Name            Default Value   New Value

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          22.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 200.00        306.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 20.00          23.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                  4.00          20.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          44.00

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            12/1/2015      11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            10/31/2016     11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            8/28/2015      8/30/2015

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate             1/2/2017      11/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2015      10/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           8/31/2015      9/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2016      9/1/2015

            tblGrading                  AcresOfGrading              7.50          1.50

            tblGrading                  MaterialExported            0.00        8,700.00

           tblLandUse                  LandUseSquareFeet          7,759.07      34,000.00

           tblLandUse                     LotAcreage                0.18          1.84

     tblProjectCharacteristics          OperationalYear             2014          2017



2.0 Emissions Summary
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                     Page 3 of 23                                                    Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



2.1 Overall Construction (Maximum Daily Emission)
Unmitigated Construction




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust     PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                       PM10          PM10       Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                        lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    2015      5.1856    38.9082   26.7613   0.0554    5.6824         2.3899     7.1749     2.7819     2.2677    4.1549     0.0000     5,666.876   5,666.876    0.8984    0.0000   5,685.742
                                                                                                                                          1           1                               8

    2016      39.5969   23.5251   18.2939   0.0286    0.2275         1.5724     1.7999     0.0611     1.5235    1.5846     0.0000     2,661.416   2,661.416    0.4944    0.0000   2,671.798
                                                                                                                                          6           6                               9

    Total     44.7824   62.4332   45.0552   0.0840    5.9100         3.9623     8.9748     2.8430     3.7912    5.7395     0.0000     8,328.292   8,328.292    1.3928    0.0000   8,357.541
                                                                                                                                          7           7                               7




Mitigated Construction




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust     PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                       PM10          PM10       Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                        lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    2015      5.1856    38.9082   26.7613   0.0554    2.8488         2.3899     4.3413     1.2577     2.2677    2.6307     0.0000     5,666.876   5,666.876    0.8984    0.0000   5,685.742
                                                                                                                                          1           1                               8

    2016      39.5969   23.5251   18.2939   0.0286    0.2275         1.5724     1.7999     0.0611     1.5235    1.5846     0.0000     2,661.416   2,661.416    0.4944    0.0000   2,671.798
                                                                                                                                          6           6                               9

    Total     44.7824   62.4332   45.0552   0.0840    3.0763         3.9623     6.1411     1.3188     3.7912    4.2153     0.0000     8,328.292   8,328.292    1.3928    0.0000   8,357.541
                                                                                                                                          7           7                               7



              ROG        NOx       CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust      PM10     Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio-CO2 Total CO2        CH4       N20      CO2e
                                                      PM10          PM10        Total     PM2.5       PM2.5     Total

   Percent    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      47.95              0.00   31.57      53.61      0.00     26.56       0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
  Reduction
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                      Page 4 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



2.2 Overall Operational
Unmitigated Operational




              ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4     N2O        CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    Area      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144     4.0000e-               0.0153
                           005        003                              005        005                    005        005                                           005

   Energy     0.0109    0.0995     0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-               7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425    119.3425    2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                 004                   003        003                    003        003                                           003        003

   Mobile     0.3867    1.1626     4.6873     0.0122     0.8181      0.0172    0.8353       0.2186    0.0158     0.2344                1,040.276   1,040.276   0.0391                1,041.096
                                                                                                                                           4           4                                 4

    Total     1.2874    1.2621     4.7777     0.0128     0.8181      0.0248    0.8429       0.2186    0.0234     0.2420                1,159.633   1,159.633   0.0414     2.1900e-   1,161.180
                                                                                                                                           3           3                     003         4




Mitigated Operational




              ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4     N2O        CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    Area      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144     4.0000e-               0.0153
                           005        003                              005        005                    005        005                                           005

   Energy     0.0109    0.0995     0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-               7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425    119.3425    2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                 004                   003        003                    003        003                                           003        003

   Mobile     0.3867    1.1626     4.6873     0.0122     0.8181      0.0172    0.8353       0.2186    0.0158     0.2344                1,040.276   1,040.276   0.0391                1,041.096
                                                                                                                                           4           4                                 4

    Total     1.2874    1.2621     4.7777     0.0128     0.8181      0.0248    0.8429       0.2186    0.0234     0.2420                1,159.633   1,159.633   0.0414     2.1900e-   1,161.180
                                                                                                                                           3           3                     003         4
    CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 5 of 23                                                   Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM

                        ROG          NOx     CO          SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust      PM10     Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio-CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N20    CO2e
                                                                 PM10       PM10        Total     PM2.5      PM2.5     Total

     Percent            0.00         0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00
    Reduction




3.0 Construction Detail

Construction Phase
 Phase                  Phase Name                    Phase Type               Start Date          End Date      Num Days      Num Days              Phase Description
 Number                                                                                                            Week

1          Demolition                       Demolition                      7/1/2015            7/31/2015                 5           23

2          Grading                          Grading                         8/1/2015            8/30/2015                 5           20

3          Building Construction            Building Construction           9/1/2015            11/1/2016                 5          306

4          Paving                           Paving                          9/1/2015            11/1/2015                 5           44

5          Architectural Coating            Architectural Coating           10/1/2016           11/1/2016                 5           22



Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 0

Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 1.5

Acres of Paving: 0

Residential Indoor: 0; Residential Outdoor: 0; Non-Residential Indoor: 51,000; Non-Residential Outdoor: 17,000 (Architectural Coating – sqft)

OffRoad Equipment
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                     Page 6 of 23                                                    Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM

             Phase Name                      Offroad Equipment Type                  Amount              Usage Hours       Horse Power          Load Factor

Demolition                            Concrete/Industrial Saws                                    1               8.00                   81                 0.73

Demolition                            Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               8.00                  255                 0.40

Demolition                            Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   3               8.00                   97                 0.37

Grading                               Graders                                                     1               6.00                  174                 0.41

Grading                               Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               6.00                  255                 0.40

Grading                               Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               7.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Cranes                                                      1               6.00                  226                 0.29

Building Construction                 Forklifts                                                   1               6.00                   89                 0.20

Building Construction                 Generator Sets                                              1               8.00                   84                 0.74

Building Construction                 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               6.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Welders                                                     3               8.00                   46                 0.45

Paving                                Cement and Mortar Mixers                                    1               6.00                    9                 0.56

Paving                                Pavers                                                      1               6.00                  125                 0.42

Paving                                Paving Equipment                                            1               8.00                  130                 0.36

Paving                                Rollers                                                     1               7.00                   80                 0.38

Paving                                Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               8.00                   97                 0.37

Architectural Coating                 Air Compressors                                             1               6.00                   78                 0.48



Trips and VMT

     Phase Name         Offroad Equipment   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip    Worker Vehicle       Vendor        Hauling
                              Count          Number           Number         Number        Length           Length         Length            Class          Vehicle Class Vehicle Class


Demolition                              5          13.00            0.00          18.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Grading                                 3           8.00            0.00       1,088.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Building Construction                   7          14.00            6.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Paving                                  5          13.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Architectural Coating                   1           3.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 7 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM


3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction

Water Exposed Area


3.2 Demolition - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           0.1712      0.0000    0.1712    0.0259     0.0000     0.0259                             0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245                 1.8651    1.8651               1.7469     1.7469                2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4

    Total        3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245     0.1712      1.8651    2.0363    0.0259     1.7469     1.7729                2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



   Hauling       0.0152   0.2434    0.1640    5.8000e-   0.0136     4.2400e-   0.0179    3.7300e-   3.9000e-   7.6400e-               58.8183    58.8183     4.6000e-         58.8280
                                                 004                   003                  003        003        003                                           004

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0602   0.0753    0.9333    1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466    0.0385     1.1700e-   0.0397                160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003

    Total        0.0753   0.3187    1.0973    2.4200e-   0.1589     5.5200e-   0.1645    0.0423     5.0700e-   0.0474                218.9651    218.9651    9.0800e-         219.1559
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 8 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.2 Demolition - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           0.0668      0.0000    0.0668    0.0101     0.0000     0.0101                             0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245                 1.8651    1.8651               1.7469     1.7469      0.0000    2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4

    Total        3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245     0.0668      1.8651    1.9319    0.0101     1.7469     1.7570      0.0000    2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



   Hauling       0.0152   0.2434    0.1640    5.8000e-   0.0136     4.2400e-   0.0179    3.7300e-   3.9000e-   7.6400e-               58.8183    58.8183     4.6000e-         58.8280
                                                 004                   003                  003        003        003                                           004

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0602   0.0753    0.9333    1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466    0.0385     1.1700e-   0.0397                160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003

    Total        0.0753   0.3187    1.0973    2.4200e-   0.1589     5.5200e-   0.1645    0.0423     5.0700e-   0.0474                218.9651    218.9651    9.0800e-         219.1559
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 9 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           4.6453      0.0000    4.6453    2.4987     0.0000     2.4987                           0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141                 1.1968    1.1968               1.1011     1.1011              1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4

    Total        2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141     4.6453      1.1968    5.8421    2.4987     1.1011     3.5998              1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling       1.0540   16.9176   11.4006   0.0402     0.9477      0.2949    1.2426    0.2595     0.2712     0.5308              4,088.524   4,088.524   0.0320           4,089.196
                                                                                                                                       2           2                            5

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0370   0.0463    0.5744    1.1300e-   0.0894     7.9000e-   0.0902    0.0237     7.2000e-   0.0244               98.5519    98.5519     5.3100e-         98.6633
                                                 003                   004                             004                                                    003

    Total        1.0911   16.9639   11.9749   0.0413     1.0371      0.2957    1.3328    0.2832     0.2720     0.5552              4,187.076   4,187.076   0.0373           4,187.859
                                                                                                                                       1           1                            8
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 10 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           1.8117      0.0000    1.8117     0.9745    0.0000     0.9745                           0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141                 1.1968    1.1968               1.1011     1.1011    0.0000    1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4

    Total        2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141     1.8117      1.1968    3.0085     0.9745    1.1011     2.0756    0.0000    1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling       1.0540   16.9176   11.4006   0.0402     0.9477      0.2949    1.2426     0.2595    0.2712     0.5308              4,088.524   4,088.524   0.0320           4,089.196
                                                                                                                                       2           2                            5

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0370   0.0463    0.5744    1.1300e-   0.0894     7.9000e-   0.0902     0.0237    7.2000e-   0.0244               98.5519    98.5519     5.3100e-         98.6633
                                                 003                   004                             004                                                    003

    Total        1.0911   16.9639   11.9749   0.0413     1.0371      0.2957    1.3328     0.2832    0.2720     0.5552              4,187.076   4,187.076   0.0373           4,187.859
                                                                                                                                       1           1                            8
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 11 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344              2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2

    Total     3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344              2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0565   0.5867    0.6493    1.3100e-   0.0375      0.0103    0.0478     0.0107    9.4300e-   0.0201              132.2743    132.2743    1.0300e-         132.2960
                                              003                                                   003                                                    003

   Worker     0.0648   0.0811    1.0051    1.9800e-   0.1565     1.3800e-   0.1579     0.0415    1.2600e-   0.0428              172.4658    172.4658    9.2900e-         172.6608
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1213   0.6678    1.6544    3.2900e-   0.1940      0.0116    0.2056     0.0522    0.0107     0.0629              304.7402    304.7402    0.0103           304.9569
                                              003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 12 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344    0.0000    2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2

    Total     3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344    0.0000    2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0565   0.5867    0.6493    1.3100e-   0.0375      0.0103    0.0478     0.0107    9.4300e-   0.0201              132.2743    132.2743    1.0300e-         132.2960
                                              003                                                   003                                                    003

   Worker     0.0648   0.0811    1.0051    1.9800e-   0.1565     1.3800e-   0.1579     0.0415    1.2600e-   0.0428              172.4658    172.4658    9.2900e-         172.6608
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1213   0.6678    1.6544    3.2900e-   0.1940      0.0116    0.2056     0.0522    0.0107     0.0629              304.7402    304.7402    0.0103           304.9569
                                              003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 13 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176              2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3

    Total     3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176              2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0500   0.5182    0.5976    1.3000e-   0.0375     8.5300e-   0.0460     0.0107    7.8500e-   0.0185              130.8174    130.8174    9.3000e-         130.8370
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    004

   Worker     0.0585   0.0731    0.9100    1.9800e-   0.1565     1.3100e-   0.1578     0.0415    1.2000e-   0.0427              166.5242    166.5242    8.5400e-         166.7036
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1085   0.5913    1.5076    3.2800e-   0.1940     9.8400e-   0.2038     0.0522    9.0500e-   0.0612              297.3415    297.3415    9.4700e-         297.5406
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 14 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176    0.0000    2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3

    Total     3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176    0.0000    2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0500   0.5182    0.5976    1.3000e-   0.0375     8.5300e-   0.0460     0.0107    7.8500e-   0.0185              130.8174    130.8174    9.3000e-         130.8370
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    004

   Worker     0.0585   0.0731    0.9100    1.9800e-   0.1565     1.3100e-   0.1578     0.0415    1.2000e-   0.0427              166.5242    166.5242    8.5400e-         166.7036
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1085   0.5913    1.5076    3.2800e-   0.1940     9.8400e-   0.2038     0.0522    9.0500e-   0.0612              297.3415    297.3415    9.4700e-         297.5406
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                               Page 15 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215              1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6

   Paving     0.0000                                             0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                       0.0000


    Total     1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215              1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker     0.0602   0.0753    0.9333   1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.0602   0.0753    0.9333   1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                               Page 16 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215    0.0000    1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6

   Paving     0.0000                                             0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                       0.0000


    Total     1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215    0.0000    1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker     0.0602   0.0753    0.9333   1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.0602   0.0753    0.9333   1.8400e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              160.1468    160.1468    8.6200e-         160.3279
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 17 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Archit. Coating   35.8159                                            0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                            0.0000                      0.0000


   Off-Road        0.3685    2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966                281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003

     Total         36.1844   2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966                281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



    Hauling        0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Worker         0.0125    0.0157   0.1950   4.2000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               35.6838   35.6838    1.8300e-         35.7222
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003

     Total         0.0125    0.0157   0.1950   4.2000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               35.6838   35.6838    1.8300e-         35.7222
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 18 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Archit. Coating   35.8159                                            0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                            0.0000                      0.0000


   Off-Road        0.3685    2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966      0.0000    281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003

     Total         36.1844   2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966      0.0000    281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



    Hauling        0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Worker         0.0125    0.0157   0.1950   4.2000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               35.6838   35.6838    1.8300e-         35.7222
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003

     Total         0.0125    0.0157   0.1950   4.2000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               35.6838   35.6838    1.8300e-         35.7222
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003




4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                                       Page 19 of 23                                                          Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM


4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile




                  ROG           NOx        CO          SO2          Fugitive      Exhaust         PM10       Fugitive     Exhaust          PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4           N2O        CO2e
                                                                     PM10          PM10           Total       PM2.5        PM2.5            Total

  Category                                                                 lb/day                                                                                                   lb/day



  Mitigated      0.3867       1.1626     4.6873       0.0122         0.8181           0.0172      0.8353      0.2186      0.0158           0.2344               1,040.276    1,040.276      0.0391                   1,041.096
                                                                                                                                                                    4            4                                       4

 Unmitigated     0.3867       1.1626     4.6873       0.0122         0.8181           0.0172      0.8353      0.2186      0.0158           0.2344               1,040.276    1,040.276      0.0391                   1,041.096
                                                                                                                                                                    4            4                                       4




4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                           Average Daily Trip Rate                                           Unmitigated                                 Mitigated
                     Land Use                                 Weekday                    Saturday          Sunday                            Annual VMT                             Annual VMT

               Junior High School                                 106.92                   0.00                0.00                            275,518                                   275,518
                      Total                                       106.92                   0.00                0.00                            275,518                                   275,518


4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                          Miles                                                  Trip %                                               Trip Purpose %

          Land Use                H-W or C-W         H-S or C-C       H-O or C-NW H-W or C-W H-S or C-C                     H-O or C-NW              Primary          Diverted                 Pass-by
     Junior High School                16.60              8.40                 6.90            72.80           22.20                5.00                 63                 25                       12




  LDA          LDT1           LDT2             MDV            LHD1               LHD2             MHD               HHD         OBUS                UBUS          MCY            SBUS                     MH
  0.512163     0.060173       0.180257         0.139094      0.042244           0.006664          0.016017       0.031880       0.001940            0.002497     0.004356        0.000592                 0.002122



5.0 Energy Detail
4.4 Fleet Mix
Historical Energy Use: N
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                       Page 20 of 23                                                 Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM
Historical Energy Use: N

5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                  ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4            N2O     CO2e
                                                         PM10       PM10           Total     PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

  Category                                                     lb/day                                                                                     lb/day



 NaturalGas      0.0109    0.0995   0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-    7.5600e-                7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425   2.2900e-        2.1900e-   120.0688
  Mitigated                                     004                   003         003                     003        003                                         003             003

 NaturalGas      0.0109    0.0995   0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-    7.5600e-                7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425   2.2900e-        2.1900e-   120.0688
 Unmitigated                                    004                   003         003                     003        003                                         003             003




5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated




               NaturalGa   ROG       NOx       CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust        PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2            CH4     N2O        CO2e
                s Use                                               PM10       PM10          Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Land Use     kBTU/yr                                                    lb/day                                                                                         lb/day



 Junior High   1014.41     0.0109   0.0995   0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-    2.1900e-   120.0688
   School                                                  004                   003           003                   003        003                                             003         003

    Total                  0.0109   0.0995   0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-    2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                           004                   003           003                   003        003                                             003         003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                         Page 21 of 23                                                   Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Mitigated




                NaturalGa    ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust        PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2            CH4    N2O        CO2e
                 s Use                                                 PM10       PM10          Total       PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

  Land Use      kBTU/yr                                                      lb/day                                                                                           lb/day



 Junior High    1.01441     0.0109     0.0995     0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-               7.5600e-    7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
   School                                                     004                   003           003                    003         003                                             003        003

    Total                   0.0109     0.0995     0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-               7.5600e-    7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                              004                   003           003                    003         003                                             003        003




6.0 Area Detail

6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                   ROG       NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4            N2O     CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10           Total      PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

   Category                                                       lb/day                                                                                       lb/day



   Mitigated      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-    2.0000e-                 2.0000e-    2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144   4.0000e-                   0.0153
                               005        003                            005         005                      005         005                                         005

  Unmitigated     0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-    2.0000e-                 2.0000e-    2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144   4.0000e-                   0.0153
                               005        003                            005         005                      005         005                                         005
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                        Page 22 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM



6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10        Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10       Total        PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

 SubCategory                                                      lb/day                                                                                   lb/day



  Consumer       0.6732                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     6.6000e-   7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                    004        005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005

 Architectural   0.2159                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Coating

     Total       0.8897     7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                               005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005




Mitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10        Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10       Total        PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

 SubCategory                                                      lb/day                                                                                   lb/day



  Consumer       0.6732                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     6.6000e-   7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                    004        005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005

 Architectural   0.2159                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Coating

     Total       0.8897     7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                               005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005



7.0 Water Detail
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                  Page 23 of 23                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:33 PM


7.1 Mitigation Measures Water


8.0 Waste Detail

8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste


9.0 Operational Offroad

        Equipment Type           Number   Hours/Day       Days/Year   Horse Power   Load Factor      Fuel Type



10.0 Vegetation
Winter Emissions Calculations
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                         Page 1 of 23                                             Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



                                                                         MORCS Charter School
                                                                 South Coast AQMD Air District, Winter

1.0 Project Characteristics

1.1 Land Usage

                Land Uses                                Size                            Metric                          Lot Acreage    Floor Surface Area      Population

          Junior High School                             66.00                          Student                             1.84            34,000.00               0


1.2 Other Project Characteristics

Urbanization         Urban                    Wind Speed (m/s)     2.2                       Precipitation Freq (Days)          31

Climate Zone         11                                                                      Operational Year                   2017


Utility Company      Los Angeles Department of Water & Power


CO2 Intensity        1227.89                  CH4 Intensity          0.029                   N2O Intensity                 0.006
(lb/MWhr)                                     (lb/MWhr)                                      (lb/MWhr)


1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data

Project Characteristics -
Land Use - Project is 3 buildings totalling 34,000 sqft on a 1.84 acre site. Allows the addition of 66 students to an existing school.
Construction Phase - Demo: 7/1/15-7/31/15
Grading: 8/1/15-8/30/15
Const: 9/1/15-11/1/16
Paving: 9/1/15-11/1/15
Coating: 10/1/16-11/1/16
Demolition - 4,000 sqft of structures demolished.
Grading - 8,700 cy of material removed.
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - Assume area is watered 3x per day per SCAQMD guidelines.
Mobile Land Use Mitigation -
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                       Page 2 of 23                     Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM

           Table Name                    Column Name            Default Value   New Value

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          22.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 200.00        306.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 20.00          23.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                  4.00          20.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          44.00

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            12/1/2015      11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            10/31/2016     11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            8/28/2015      8/30/2015

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate             1/2/2017      11/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2015      10/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           8/31/2015      9/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2016      9/1/2015

            tblGrading                  AcresOfGrading              7.50          1.50

            tblGrading                  MaterialExported            0.00        8,700.00

           tblLandUse                  LandUseSquareFeet          7,759.07      34,000.00

           tblLandUse                     LotAcreage                0.18          1.84

     tblProjectCharacteristics          OperationalYear             2014          2017



2.0 Emissions Summary
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                     Page 3 of 23                                                    Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



2.1 Overall Construction (Maximum Daily Emission)
Unmitigated Construction




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust     PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                       PM10          PM10       Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                        lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    2015      5.1940    39.5285   27.5587   0.0552    5.6824         2.3900     7.1759     2.7819     2.2678    4.1559     0.0000     5,651.084   5,651.084    0.8984    0.0000   5,669.951
                                                                                                                                          6           6                               8

    2016      39.6032   23.5468   18.3268   0.0285    0.2275         1.5725     1.8000     0.0611     1.5236    1.5846     0.0000     2,647.783   2,647.783    0.4944    0.0000   2,658.166
                                                                                                                                          1           1                               0

    Total     44.7972   63.0753   45.8855   0.0837    5.9100         3.9625     8.9759     2.8430     3.7914    5.7405     0.0000     8,298.867   8,298.867    1.3929    0.0000   8,328.117
                                                                                                                                          7           7                               9




Mitigated Construction




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust     PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                       PM10          PM10       Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                        lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    2015      5.1940    39.5285   27.5587   0.0552    2.8488         2.3900     4.3423     1.2577     2.2678    2.6317     0.0000     5,651.084   5,651.084    0.8984    0.0000   5,669.951
                                                                                                                                          6           6                               8

    2016      39.6032   23.5468   18.3268   0.0285    0.2275         1.5725     1.8000     0.0611     1.5236    1.5846     0.0000     2,647.783   2,647.783    0.4944    0.0000   2,658.166
                                                                                                                                          1           1                               0

    Total     44.7972   63.0753   45.8855   0.0837    3.0763         3.9625     6.1422     1.3188     3.7914    4.2163     0.0000     8,298.867   8,298.867    1.3929    0.0000   8,328.117
                                                                                                                                          7           7                               9



              ROG        NOx       CO       SO2      Fugitive      Exhaust      PM10     Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio-CO2 Total CO2        CH4       N20      CO2e
                                                      PM10          PM10        Total     PM2.5       PM2.5     Total

   Percent    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      47.95              0.00   31.57      53.61      0.00     26.55       0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
  Reduction
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                      Page 4 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



2.2 Overall Operational
Unmitigated Operational




              ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4     N2O        CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    Area      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144     4.0000e-               0.0153
                           005        003                              005        005                    005        005                                           005

   Energy     0.0109    0.0995     0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-               7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425    119.3425    2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                 004                   003        003                    003        003                                           003        003

   Mobile     0.3981    1.2229     4.5782     0.0116     0.8181      0.0173    0.8353       0.2186    0.0159     0.2345                990.2750    990.2750    0.0391                991.0956


    Total     1.2988    1.3224     4.6686     0.0122     0.8181      0.0249    0.8429       0.2186    0.0235     0.2421                1,109.631   1,109.631   0.0414     2.1900e-   1,111.179
                                                                                                                                           9           9                     003         6




Mitigated Operational




              ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4     N2O        CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                    lb/day



    Area      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144     4.0000e-               0.0153
                           005        003                              005        005                    005        005                                           005

   Energy     0.0109    0.0995     0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-               7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425    119.3425    2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                 004                   003        003                    003        003                                           003        003

   Mobile     0.3981    1.2229     4.5782     0.0116     0.8181      0.0173    0.8353       0.2186    0.0159     0.2345                990.2750    990.2750    0.0391                991.0956


    Total     1.2988    1.3224     4.6686     0.0122     0.8181      0.0249    0.8429       0.2186    0.0235     0.2421                1,109.631   1,109.631   0.0414     2.1900e-   1,111.179
                                                                                                                                           9           9                     003         6
    CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 5 of 23                                                   Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM

                        ROG          NOx     CO          SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust      PM10     Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio-CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N20    CO2e
                                                                 PM10       PM10        Total     PM2.5      PM2.5     Total

     Percent            0.00         0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00
    Reduction




3.0 Construction Detail

Construction Phase
 Phase                  Phase Name                    Phase Type               Start Date          End Date      Num Days      Num Days              Phase Description
 Number                                                                                                            Week

1          Demolition                       Demolition                      7/1/2015            7/31/2015                 5           23

2          Grading                          Grading                         8/1/2015            8/30/2015                 5           20

3          Building Construction            Building Construction           9/1/2015            11/1/2016                 5          306

4          Paving                           Paving                          9/1/2015            11/1/2015                 5           44

5          Architectural Coating            Architectural Coating           10/1/2016           11/1/2016                 5           22



Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 0

Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 1.5

Acres of Paving: 0

Residential Indoor: 0; Residential Outdoor: 0; Non-Residential Indoor: 51,000; Non-Residential Outdoor: 17,000 (Architectural Coating – sqft)

OffRoad Equipment
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                     Page 6 of 23                                                    Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM

             Phase Name                      Offroad Equipment Type                  Amount              Usage Hours       Horse Power          Load Factor

Demolition                            Concrete/Industrial Saws                                    1               8.00                   81                 0.73

Demolition                            Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               8.00                  255                 0.40

Demolition                            Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   3               8.00                   97                 0.37

Grading                               Graders                                                     1               6.00                  174                 0.41

Grading                               Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               6.00                  255                 0.40

Grading                               Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               7.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Cranes                                                      1               6.00                  226                 0.29

Building Construction                 Forklifts                                                   1               6.00                   89                 0.20

Building Construction                 Generator Sets                                              1               8.00                   84                 0.74

Building Construction                 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               6.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Welders                                                     3               8.00                   46                 0.45

Paving                                Cement and Mortar Mixers                                    1               6.00                    9                 0.56

Paving                                Pavers                                                      1               6.00                  125                 0.42

Paving                                Paving Equipment                                            1               8.00                  130                 0.36

Paving                                Rollers                                                     1               7.00                   80                 0.38

Paving                                Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               8.00                   97                 0.37

Architectural Coating                 Air Compressors                                             1               6.00                   78                 0.48



Trips and VMT

     Phase Name         Offroad Equipment   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip    Worker Vehicle       Vendor        Hauling
                              Count          Number           Number         Number        Length           Length         Length            Class          Vehicle Class Vehicle Class


Demolition                              5          13.00            0.00          18.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Grading                                 3           8.00            0.00       1,088.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Building Construction                   7          14.00            6.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Paving                                  5          13.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Architectural Coating                   1           3.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 7 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM


3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction

Water Exposed Area


3.2 Demolition - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           0.1712      0.0000    0.1712    0.0259     0.0000     0.0259                             0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245                 1.8651    1.8651               1.7469     1.7469                2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4

    Total        3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245     0.1712      1.8651    2.0363    0.0259     1.7469     1.7729                2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



   Hauling       0.0161   0.2522    0.1861    5.8000e-   0.0136     4.2600e-   0.0179    3.7300e-   3.9200e-   7.6500e-               58.6788    58.6788     4.7000e-         58.6886
                                                 004                   003                  003        003        003                                           004

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0616   0.0826    0.8627    1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466    0.0385     1.1700e-   0.0397                150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003

    Total        0.0776   0.3349    1.0488    2.3100e-   0.1589     5.5400e-   0.1645    0.0423     5.0900e-   0.0474                208.9148    208.9148    9.0900e-         209.1056
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 8 of 23                                                  Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.2 Demolition - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           0.0668      0.0000    0.0668    0.0101     0.0000     0.0101                             0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245                 1.8651    1.8651               1.7469     1.7469      0.0000    2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4

    Total        3.0666   29.6778   22.0566   0.0245     0.0668      1.8651    1.9319    0.0101     1.7469     1.7570      0.0000    2,509.059   2,509.059   0.6357           2,522.410
                                                                                                                                         9           9                            4




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                  lb/day



   Hauling       0.0161   0.2522    0.1861    5.8000e-   0.0136     4.2600e-   0.0179    3.7300e-   3.9200e-   7.6500e-               58.6788    58.6788     4.7000e-         58.6886
                                                 004                   003                  003        003        003                                           004

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0616   0.0826    0.8627    1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466    0.0385     1.1700e-   0.0397                150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003

    Total        0.0776   0.3349    1.0488    2.3100e-   0.1589     5.5400e-   0.1645    0.0423     5.0900e-   0.0474                208.9148    208.9148    9.0900e-         209.1056
                                                 003                   003                             003                                                      003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 9 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           4.6453      0.0000    4.6453    2.4987     0.0000     2.4987                           0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141                 1.1968    1.1968               1.1011     1.1011              1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4

    Total        2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141     4.6453      1.1968    5.8421    2.4987     1.1011     3.5998              1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling       1.1163   17.5334   12.9375   0.0401     0.9477      0.2959    1.2436    0.2595     0.2722     0.5317              4,078.831   4,078.831   0.0324           4,079.512
                                                                                                                                       7           7                            4

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0379   0.0509    0.5309    1.0600e-   0.0894     7.9000e-   0.0902    0.0237     7.2000e-   0.0244               92.4529    92.4529     5.3100e-         92.5643
                                                 003                   004                             004                                                    003

    Total        1.1542   17.5843   13.4684   0.0411     1.0371      0.2967    1.3338    0.2832     0.2729     0.5561              4,171.284   4,171.284   0.0377           4,172.076
                                                                                                                                       6           6                            7
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                   Page 10 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Fugitive Dust                                           1.8117      0.0000    1.8117     0.9745    0.0000     0.9745                           0.0000                       0.0000


  Off-Road       2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141                 1.1968    1.1968               1.1011     1.1011    0.0000    1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4

    Total        2.0666   21.9443   14.0902   0.0141     1.8117      1.1968    3.0085     0.9745    1.1011     2.0756    0.0000    1,479.800   1,479.800   0.4418           1,489.077
                                                                                                                                       0           0                            4




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                 ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                          PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling       1.1163   17.5334   12.9375   0.0401     0.9477      0.2959    1.2436     0.2595    0.2722     0.5317              4,078.831   4,078.831   0.0324           4,079.512
                                                                                                                                       7           7                            4

   Vendor        0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker        0.0379   0.0509    0.5309    1.0600e-   0.0894     7.9000e-   0.0902     0.0237    7.2000e-   0.0244               92.4529    92.4529     5.3100e-         92.5643
                                                 003                   004                             004                                                    003

    Total        1.1542   17.5843   13.4684   0.0411     1.0371      0.2967    1.3338     0.2832    0.2729     0.5561              4,171.284   4,171.284   0.0377           4,172.076
                                                                                                                                       6           6                            7
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 11 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344              2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2

    Total     3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344              2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0621   0.6020    0.7703    1.3000e-   0.0375      0.0104    0.0479     0.0107    9.5500e-   0.0202              131.1701    131.1701    1.0600e-         131.1925
                                              003                                                   003                                                    003

   Worker     0.0663   0.0890    0.9291    1.8600e-   0.1565     1.3800e-   0.1579     0.0415    1.2600e-   0.0428              161.7925    161.7925    9.2900e-         161.9875
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1284   0.6910    1.6993    3.1600e-   0.1940      0.0118    0.2057     0.0522    0.0108     0.0630              292.9627    292.9627    0.0104           293.1800
                                              003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 12 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344    0.0000    2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2

    Total     3.6000   21.5642   15.0041   0.0220                 1.4851    1.4851               1.4344     1.4344    0.0000    2,055.624   2,055.624   0.4741           2,065.581
                                                                                                                                    7           7                            2




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0621   0.6020    0.7703    1.3000e-   0.0375      0.0104    0.0479     0.0107    9.5500e-   0.0202              131.1701    131.1701    1.0600e-         131.1925
                                              003                                                   003                                                    003

   Worker     0.0663   0.0890    0.9291    1.8600e-   0.1565     1.3800e-   0.1579     0.0415    1.2600e-   0.0428              161.7925    161.7925    9.2900e-         161.9875
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1284   0.6910    1.6993    3.1600e-   0.1940      0.0118    0.2057     0.0522    0.0108     0.0630              292.9627    292.9627    0.0104           293.1800
                                              003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 13 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176              2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3

    Total     3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176              2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0548   0.5313    0.7174    1.3000e-   0.0375     8.6200e-   0.0461     0.0107    7.9300e-   0.0186              129.7203    129.7203    9.6000e-         129.7404
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    004

   Worker     0.0597   0.0803    0.8385    1.8600e-   0.1565     1.3100e-   0.1578     0.0415    1.2000e-   0.0427              156.2001    156.2001    8.5400e-         156.3796
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1145   0.6115    1.5558    3.1600e-   0.1940     9.9300e-   0.2039     0.0522    9.1300e-   0.0613              285.9204    285.9204    9.5000e-         286.1200
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                Page 14 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176    0.0000    2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3

    Total     3.2915   20.5459   14.7074   0.0220                 1.3656    1.3656               1.3176     1.3176    0.0000    2,046.943   2,046.943   0.4499           2,056.391
                                                                                                                                    2           2                            3




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                       PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                   lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0548   0.5313    0.7174    1.3000e-   0.0375     8.6200e-   0.0461     0.0107    7.9300e-   0.0186              129.7203    129.7203    9.6000e-         129.7404
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    004

   Worker     0.0597   0.0803    0.8385    1.8600e-   0.1565     1.3100e-   0.1578     0.0415    1.2000e-   0.0427              156.2001    156.2001    8.5400e-         156.3796
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.1145   0.6115    1.5558    3.1600e-   0.1940     9.9300e-   0.2039     0.0522    9.1300e-   0.0613              285.9204    285.9204    9.5000e-         286.1200
                                              003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                               Page 15 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG       NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215              1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6

   Paving     0.0000                                             0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                       0.0000


    Total     1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215              1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG       NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker     0.0616   0.0826    0.8627   1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.0616   0.0826    0.8627   1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                               Page 16 of 23                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG      NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



  Off-Road    1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215    0.0000    1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6

   Paving     0.0000                                             0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                       0.0000


    Total     1.4041   14.5959   9.1695   0.0133                 0.8919    0.8919               0.8215     0.8215    0.0000    1,382.470   1,382.470   0.4054           1,390.982
                                                                                                                                   3           3                            6




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG      NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                      PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                lb/day



   Hauling    0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000   0.0000    0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000               0.0000      0.0000     0.0000            0.0000


   Worker     0.0616   0.0826    0.8627   1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003

    Total     0.0616   0.0826    0.8627   1.7300e-   0.1453     1.2800e-   0.1466     0.0385    1.1700e-   0.0397              150.2359    150.2359    8.6200e-         150.4170
                                             003                   003                             003                                                    003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 17 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Archit. Coating   35.8159                                            0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                            0.0000                      0.0000


   Off-Road        0.3685    2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966                281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003

     Total         36.1844   2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966                281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



    Hauling        0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Worker         0.0128    0.0172   0.1797   4.0000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               33.4715   33.4715    1.8300e-         33.5099
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003

     Total         0.0128    0.0172   0.1797   4.0000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               33.4715   33.4715    1.8300e-         33.5099
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 18 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



 Archit. Coating   35.8159                                            0.0000    0.0000               0.0000     0.0000                            0.0000                      0.0000


   Off-Road        0.3685    2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966      0.0000    281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003

     Total         36.1844   2.3722   1.8839   2.9700e-               0.1966    0.1966               0.1966     0.1966      0.0000    281.4481   281.4481   0.0332           282.1449
                                                  003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                           PM10       PM10      Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                      lb/day                                                                                lb/day



    Hauling        0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000    0.0000            0.0000


    Worker         0.0128    0.0172   0.1797   4.0000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               33.4715   33.4715    1.8300e-         33.5099
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003

     Total         0.0128    0.0172   0.1797   4.0000e-   0.0335     2.8000e-   0.0338    8.8900e-   2.6000e-   9.1500e-               33.4715   33.4715    1.8300e-         33.5099
                                                  004                   004                  003        004        003                                         003




4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                                       Page 19 of 23                                                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM


4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile




                  ROG           NOx        CO          SO2          Fugitive      Exhaust         PM10       Fugitive     Exhaust          PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4           N2O        CO2e
                                                                     PM10          PM10           Total       PM2.5        PM2.5            Total

  Category                                                                 lb/day                                                                                                 lb/day



  Mitigated      0.3981       1.2229     4.5782       0.0116         0.8181           0.0173      0.8353      0.2186      0.0159           0.2345               990.2750    990.2750      0.0391                   991.0956


 Unmitigated     0.3981       1.2229     4.5782       0.0116         0.8181           0.0173      0.8353      0.2186      0.0159           0.2345               990.2750    990.2750      0.0391                   991.0956




4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                           Average Daily Trip Rate                                           Unmitigated                               Mitigated
                     Land Use                                 Weekday                    Saturday          Sunday                            Annual VMT                           Annual VMT

               Junior High School                                 106.92                   0.00                0.00                            275,518                                 275,518
                      Total                                       106.92                   0.00                0.00                            275,518                                 275,518


4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                          Miles                                                  Trip %                                               Trip Purpose %

          Land Use                H-W or C-W         H-S or C-C       H-O or C-NW H-W or C-W H-S or C-C                     H-O or C-NW              Primary         Diverted                Pass-by
     Junior High School                16.60              8.40                 6.90            72.80           22.20                5.00                 63                25                      12




  LDA          LDT1           LDT2             MDV            LHD1               LHD2             MHD               HHD         OBUS                UBUS          MCY           SBUS                    MH
  0.512163     0.060173       0.180257         0.139094      0.042244           0.006664          0.016017       0.031880       0.001940            0.002497     0.004356       0.000592                0.002122



5.0 Energy Detail
4.4 Fleet Mix
Historical Energy Use: N
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                       Page 20 of 23                                                 Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM
Historical Energy Use: N

5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                  ROG       NOx      CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4            N2O     CO2e
                                                         PM10       PM10           Total     PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

  Category                                                     lb/day                                                                                     lb/day



 NaturalGas      0.0109    0.0995   0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-    7.5600e-                7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425   2.2900e-        2.1900e-   120.0688
  Mitigated                                     004                   003         003                     003        003                                         003             003

 NaturalGas      0.0109    0.0995   0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-    7.5600e-                7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425   2.2900e-        2.1900e-   120.0688
 Unmitigated                                    004                   003         003                     003        003                                         003             003




5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated




               NaturalGa   ROG       NOx       CO        SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust        PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2            CH4     N2O        CO2e
                s Use                                               PM10       PM10          Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Land Use     kBTU/yr                                                    lb/day                                                                                         lb/day



 Junior High   1014.41     0.0109   0.0995   0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-    2.1900e-   120.0688
   School                                                  004                   003           003                   003        003                                             003         003

    Total                  0.0109   0.0995   0.0835     6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-              7.5600e-   7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-    2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                           004                   003           003                   003        003                                             003         003
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                         Page 21 of 23                                                   Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Mitigated




                NaturalGa    ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive   Exhaust        PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2            CH4    N2O        CO2e
                 s Use                                                 PM10       PM10          Total       PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

  Land Use      kBTU/yr                                                      lb/day                                                                                           lb/day



 Junior High    1.01441     0.0109     0.0995     0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-               7.5600e-    7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
   School                                                     004                   003           003                    003         003                                             003        003

    Total                   0.0109     0.0995     0.0835   6.0000e-              7.5600e-      7.5600e-               7.5600e-    7.5600e-              119.3425   119.3425       2.2900e-   2.1900e-   120.0688
                                                              004                   003           003                    003         003                                             003        003




6.0 Area Detail

6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                   ROG       NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4            N2O     CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10           Total      PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

   Category                                                       lb/day                                                                                       lb/day



   Mitigated      0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-    2.0000e-                 2.0000e-    2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144   4.0000e-                   0.0153
                               005        003                            005         005                      005         005                                         005

  Unmitigated     0.8897    7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-    2.0000e-                 2.0000e-    2.0000e-               0.0144      0.0144   4.0000e-                   0.0153
                               005        003                            005         005                      005         005                                         005
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                        Page 22 of 23                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM



6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10        Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10       Total        PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

 SubCategory                                                      lb/day                                                                                   lb/day



  Consumer       0.6732                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     6.6000e-   7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                    004        005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005

 Architectural   0.2159                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Coating

     Total       0.8897     7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                               005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005




Mitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10        Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                            PM10       PM10       Total        PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

 SubCategory                                                      lb/day                                                                                   lb/day



  Consumer       0.6732                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     6.6000e-   7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                    004        005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005

 Architectural   0.2159                                                0.0000    0.0000                  0.0000     0.0000                           0.0000                      0.0000
   Coating

     Total       0.8897     7.0000e-   6.8700e-   0.0000              2.0000e-   2.0000e-                2.0000e-   2.0000e-               0.0144    0.0144     4.0000e-         0.0153
                               005        003                            005        005                     005        005                                         005



7.0 Water Detail
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                  Page 23 of 23                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:36 PM


7.1 Mitigation Measures Water


8.0 Waste Detail

8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste


9.0 Operational Offroad

        Equipment Type           Number   Hours/Day       Days/Year   Horse Power   Load Factor      Fuel Type



10.0 Vegetation
Annual Emissions Calculations
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                         Page 1 of 28                                             Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



                                                                         MORCS Charter School
                                                                 South Coast AQMD Air District, Annual

1.0 Project Characteristics

1.1 Land Usage

                Land Uses                                Size                            Metric                          Lot Acreage    Floor Surface Area      Population

          Junior High School                             66.00                          Student                             1.84            34,000.00               0


1.2 Other Project Characteristics

Urbanization         Urban                    Wind Speed (m/s)     2.2                       Precipitation Freq (Days)          31

Climate Zone         11                                                                      Operational Year                   2017


Utility Company      Los Angeles Department of Water & Power


CO2 Intensity        1227.89                  CH4 Intensity          0.029                   N2O Intensity                 0.006
(lb/MWhr)                                     (lb/MWhr)                                      (lb/MWhr)


1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data

Project Characteristics -
Land Use - Project is 3 buildings totalling 34,000 sqft on a 1.84 acre site. Allows the addition of 66 students to an existing school.
Construction Phase - Demo: 7/1/15-7/31/15
Grading: 8/1/15-8/30/15
Const: 9/1/15-11/1/16
Paving: 9/1/15-11/1/15
Coating: 10/1/16-11/1/16
Demolition - 4,000 sqft of structures demolished.
Grading - 8,700 cy of material removed.
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - Assume area is watered 3x per day per SCAQMD guidelines.
Mobile Land Use Mitigation -
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                       Page 2 of 28                     Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM

           Table Name                    Column Name            Default Value   New Value

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          22.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 200.00        306.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 20.00          23.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                  4.00          20.00

      tblConstructionPhase                 NumDays                 10.00          44.00

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            12/1/2015      11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            10/31/2016     11/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate            8/28/2015      8/30/2015

      tblConstructionPhase               PhaseEndDate             1/2/2017      11/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2015      10/1/2016

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           8/31/2015      9/1/2015

      tblConstructionPhase              PhaseStartDate           11/2/2016      9/1/2015

            tblGrading                  AcresOfGrading              7.50          1.50

            tblGrading                  MaterialExported            0.00        8,700.00

           tblLandUse                  LandUseSquareFeet          7,759.07      34,000.00

           tblLandUse                     LotAcreage                0.18          1.84

     tblProjectCharacteristics          OperationalYear             2014          2017



2.0 Emissions Summary
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                 Page 3 of 28                                                   Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



2.1 Overall Construction
Unmitigated Construction




              ROG        NOx     CO       SO2        Fugitive     Exhaust   PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                      PM10         PM10     Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                     tons/yr                                                                                 MT/yr



    2015      0.2641   2.0464   1.4958   2.3000e-    0.0719        0.1220   0.1939     0.0317     0.1156    0.1472     0.0000     204.2192   204.2192    0.0387    0.0000   205.0314
                                            003

    2016      0.7689   2.3338   1.7956   2.7800e-    0.0211        0.1521   0.1732    5.6900e-    0.1468    0.1525     0.0000     234.1314   234.1314    0.0458    0.0000   235.0927
                                            003                                          003

    Total     1.0330   4.3802   3.2914   5.0800e-    0.0931        0.2741   0.3671     0.0373     0.2623    0.2997     0.0000     438.3506   438.3506    0.0845    0.0000   440.1240
                                            003




Mitigated Construction




              ROG        NOx     CO       SO2        Fugitive     Exhaust   PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4    N2O      CO2e
                                                      PM10         PM10     Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

    Year                                                     tons/yr                                                                                 MT/yr



    2015      0.2641   2.0464   1.4958   2.3000e-    0.0424        0.1220   0.1644     0.0162     0.1156    0.1318     0.0000     204.2190   204.2190    0.0387    0.0000   205.0312
                                            003

    2016      0.7689   2.3338   1.7956   2.7800e-    0.0211        0.1521   0.1732    5.6900e-    0.1468    0.1525     0.0000     234.1311   234.1311    0.0458    0.0000   235.0924
                                            003                                          003

    Total     1.0330   4.3802   3.2914   5.0800e-    0.0635        0.2741   0.3376     0.0219     0.2623    0.2843     0.0000     438.3502   438.3502    0.0845    0.0000   440.1236
                                            003



              ROG        NOx    CO        SO2       Fugitive     Exhaust    PM10     Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5     Bio- CO2    NBio-CO2 Total CO2      CH4       N20      CO2e
                                                     PM10         PM10      Total     PM2.5       PM2.5     Total

   Percent    0.00       0.00   0.00      0.00       31.74         0.00     8.05       41.32      0.00      5.15       0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
  Reduction
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                       Page 4 of 28                                                 Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



2.2 Overall Operational
Unmitigated Operational




              ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4      N2O        CO2e
                                                          PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                      tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



    Area     0.1623     1.0000e-   8.6000e-   0.0000                  0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000     0.0000     1.7300e-
                           005        004                                                                                                  003        003                              003

   Energy    2.0000e-   0.0182     0.0153     1.1000e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000    146.6343   146.6343   3.3800e-   9.8000e-   147.0097
                003                              004                    003        003                    003        003                                         003        004

   Mobile    0.0493     0.1621     0.6020     1.5300e-   0.1044      2.2400e-   0.1067       0.0279    2.0600e-   0.0300      0.0000    118.0658   118.0658   4.6000e-   0.0000     118.1624
                                                 003                    003                               003                                                    003

   Waste                                                              0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      2.4440     0.0000     2.4440    0.1444     0.0000      5.4772


   Water                                                              0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0508     3.7062     3.7570    5.3000e-   1.4000e-    3.9121
                                                                                                                                                                 003        004

   Total     0.2137     0.1803     0.6181     1.6400e-   0.1044      3.6200e-   0.1080       0.0279    3.4400e-   0.0314      2.4948    268.4079   270.9027   0.1577     1.1200e-   274.5631
                                                 003                    003                               003                                                               003
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                                               Page 5 of 28                                                                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



2.2 Overall Operational
Mitigated Operational




               ROG        NOx             CO              SO2        Fugitive        Exhaust             PM10        Fugitive        Exhaust             PM2.5           Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4           N2O           CO2e
                                                                      PM10            PM10               Total        PM2.5           PM2.5               Total

  Category                                                                    tons/yr                                                                                                                    MT/yr



    Area      0.1623     1.0000e-    8.6000e-            0.0000                          0.0000          0.0000                          0.0000          0.0000           0.0000      1.6400e-     1.6400e-     0.0000        0.0000        1.7300e-
                            005         004                                                                                                                                              003          003                                      003

   Energy     2.0000e-   0.0182          0.0153      1.1000e-                        1.3800e-        1.3800e-                        1.3800e-        1.3800e-             0.0000      146.6343     146.6343     3.3800e-      9.8000e-      147.0097
                 003                                    004                             003             003                             003             003                                                        003           004

   Mobile     0.0493     0.1621          0.6020      1.5300e-            0.1044      2.2400e-            0.1067          0.0279      2.0600e-            0.0300           0.0000      118.0658     118.0658     4.6000e-      0.0000        118.1624
                                                        003                             003                                             003                                                                        003

   Waste                                                                                 0.0000          0.0000                          0.0000          0.0000           2.4440       0.0000       2.4440      0.1444        0.0000         5.4772


    Water                                                                                0.0000          0.0000                          0.0000          0.0000           0.0508       3.7062       3.7570      5.3000e-      1.4000e-       3.9120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   003           004

    Total     0.2137     0.1803          0.6181      1.6400e-            0.1044      3.6200e-            0.1080          0.0279      3.4400e-            0.0314           2.4948      268.4079     270.9027     0.1577        1.1200e-      274.5630
                                                        003                             003                                             003                                                                                      003




                  ROG             NOx             CO              SO2        Fugitive        Exhaust             PM10        Fugitive        Exhaust          PM2.5          Bio- CO2     NBio-CO2 Total CO2           CH4           N20          CO2e
                                                                              PM10            PM10               Total        PM2.5           PM2.5            Total

   Percent        0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
  Reduction




3.0 Construction Detail

Construction Phase
    CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                 Page 6 of 28                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM

 Phase                 Phase Name             Phase Type       Start Date      End Date   Num Days   Num Days   Phase Description
 Number                                                                                     Week

1         Demolition                Demolition              7/1/2015        7/31/2015            5         23

2         Grading                   Grading                 8/1/2015        8/30/2015            5         20

3         Building Construction     Building Construction   9/1/2015        11/1/2016            5        306

4         Paving                    Paving                  9/1/2015        11/1/2015            5         44

5         Architectural Coating     Architectural Coating   10/1/2016       11/1/2016            5         22



Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 0

Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 1.5

Acres of Paving: 0

Residential Indoor: 0; Residential Outdoor: 0; Non-Residential Indoor: 51,000; Non-Residential Outdoor: 17,000 (Architectural Coating – sqft)

OffRoad Equipment
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                     Page 7 of 28                                                    Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM

             Phase Name                      Offroad Equipment Type                  Amount              Usage Hours       Horse Power          Load Factor

Demolition                            Concrete/Industrial Saws                                    1               8.00                   81                 0.73

Demolition                            Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               8.00                  255                 0.40

Demolition                            Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   3               8.00                   97                 0.37

Grading                               Graders                                                     1               6.00                  174                 0.41

Grading                               Rubber Tired Dozers                                         1               6.00                  255                 0.40

Grading                               Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               7.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Cranes                                                      1               6.00                  226                 0.29

Building Construction                 Forklifts                                                   1               6.00                   89                 0.20

Building Construction                 Generator Sets                                              1               8.00                   84                 0.74

Building Construction                 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               6.00                   97                 0.37

Building Construction                 Welders                                                     3               8.00                   46                 0.45

Paving                                Cement and Mortar Mixers                                    1               6.00                    9                 0.56

Paving                                Pavers                                                      1               6.00                  125                 0.42

Paving                                Paving Equipment                                            1               8.00                  130                 0.36

Paving                                Rollers                                                     1               7.00                   80                 0.38

Paving                                Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes                                   1               8.00                   97                 0.37

Architectural Coating                 Air Compressors                                             1               6.00                   78                 0.48



Trips and VMT

     Phase Name         Offroad Equipment   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip   Worker Trip     Vendor Trip    Hauling Trip    Worker Vehicle       Vendor        Hauling
                              Count          Number           Number         Number        Length           Length         Length            Class          Vehicle Class Vehicle Class


Demolition                              5          13.00            0.00          18.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Grading                                 3           8.00            0.00       1,088.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Building Construction                   7          14.00            6.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Paving                                  5          13.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT

Architectural Coating                   1           3.00            0.00           0.00          14.70            6.90          20.00 LD_Mix                HDT_Mix       HHDT
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                          Page 8 of 28                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM


3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction

Water Exposed Area


3.2 Demolition - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Fugitive Dust                                               1.9700e-     0.0000    1.9700e-    3.0000e-   0.0000     3.0000e-    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000
                                                                003                    003         004                   004

  Off-Road       0.0353     0.3413     0.2537     2.8000e-                0.0215    0.0215                 0.0201     0.0201      0.0000     26.1761   26.1761    6.6300e-   0.0000   26.3154
                                                     004                                                                                                             003

    Total        0.0353     0.3413     0.2537     2.8000e-   1.9700e-     0.0215    0.0234      3.0000e-   0.0201     0.0204      0.0000     26.1761   26.1761    6.6300e-   0.0000   26.3154
                                                     004        003                                004                                                               003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling       1.8000e-   2.9500e-   2.1100e-   1.0000e-   1.5000e-    5.0000e-   2.0000e-    4.0000e-   4.0000e-   9.0000e-    0.0000     0.6130    0.6130     0.0000     0.0000   0.6131
                    004        003        003        005        004         005        004         005        005        005

   Vendor        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker        6.7000e-   9.8000e-   0.0102     2.0000e-   1.6400e-    1.0000e-   1.6500e-    4.4000e-   1.0000e-   4.5000e-    0.0000     1.5917    1.5917     9.0000e-   0.0000   1.5936
                    004        004                   005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         005

    Total        8.5000e-   3.9300e-   0.0123     3.0000e-   1.7900e-    6.0000e-   1.8500e-    4.8000e-   5.0000e-   5.4000e-    0.0000     2.2047    2.2047     9.0000e-   0.0000   2.2067
                    004        003                   005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         005
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                          Page 9 of 28                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.2 Demolition - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Fugitive Dust                                               7.7000e-     0.0000    7.7000e-    1.2000e-   0.0000     1.2000e-    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000
                                                                004                    004         004                   004

  Off-Road       0.0353     0.3413     0.2537     2.8000e-                0.0215    0.0215                 0.0201     0.0201      0.0000     26.1761   26.1761    6.6300e-   0.0000   26.3153
                                                     004                                                                                                             003

    Total        0.0353     0.3413     0.2537     2.8000e-   7.7000e-     0.0215    0.0222      1.2000e-   0.0201     0.0202      0.0000     26.1761   26.1761    6.6300e-   0.0000   26.3153
                                                     004        004                                004                                                               003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling       1.8000e-   2.9500e-   2.1100e-   1.0000e-   1.5000e-    5.0000e-   2.0000e-    4.0000e-   4.0000e-   9.0000e-    0.0000     0.6130    0.6130     0.0000     0.0000   0.6131
                    004        003        003        005        004         005        004         005        005        005

   Vendor        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker        6.7000e-   9.8000e-   0.0102     2.0000e-   1.6400e-    1.0000e-   1.6500e-    4.4000e-   1.0000e-   4.5000e-    0.0000     1.5917    1.5917     9.0000e-   0.0000   1.5936
                    004        004                   005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         005

    Total        8.5000e-   3.9300e-   0.0123     3.0000e-   1.7900e-    6.0000e-   1.8500e-    4.8000e-   5.0000e-   5.4000e-    0.0000     2.2047    2.2047     9.0000e-   0.0000   2.2067
                    004        003                   005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         005
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                          Page 10 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Fugitive Dust                                               0.0465       0.0000    0.0465       0.0250    0.0000     0.0250      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


  Off-Road       0.0207     0.2194     0.1409     1.4000e-                0.0120    0.0120                 0.0110     0.0110      0.0000     13.4245   13.4245    4.0100e-   0.0000   13.5087
                                                     004                                                                                                             003

    Total        0.0207     0.2194     0.1409     1.4000e-   0.0465       0.0120    0.0584       0.0250    0.0110     0.0360      0.0000     13.4245   13.4245    4.0100e-   0.0000   13.5087
                                                     004                                                                                                             003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling       0.0110     0.1783     0.1273     4.0000e-   9.3200e-    2.9500e-   0.0123      2.5600e-   2.7200e-   5.2700e-    0.0000     37.0535   37.0535    2.9000e-   0.0000   37.0597
                                                     004        003         003                    003        003        003                                         004

   Vendor        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker        3.6000e-   5.2000e-   5.4400e-   1.0000e-   8.8000e-    1.0000e-   8.9000e-    2.3000e-   1.0000e-   2.4000e-    0.0000     0.8517    0.8517     5.0000e-   0.0000   0.8527
                    004        004        003        005        004         005        004         004        005        004                                         005

    Total        0.0113     0.1789     0.1327     4.1000e-   0.0102      2.9600e-   0.0132      2.7900e-   2.7300e-   5.5100e-    0.0000     37.9053   37.9053    3.4000e-   0.0000   37.9124
                                                     004                    003                    003        003        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                          Page 11 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.3 Grading - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Fugitive Dust                                               0.0181       0.0000    0.0181      9.7400e-   0.0000     9.7400e-    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000
                                                                                                   003                   003

  Off-Road       0.0207     0.2194     0.1409     1.4000e-                0.0120    0.0120                 0.0110     0.0110      0.0000     13.4245   13.4245    4.0100e-   0.0000   13.5087
                                                     004                                                                                                             003

    Total        0.0207     0.2194     0.1409     1.4000e-   0.0181       0.0120    0.0301      9.7400e-   0.0110     0.0208      0.0000     13.4245   13.4245    4.0100e-   0.0000   13.5087
                                                     004                                           003                                                               003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                              PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling       0.0110     0.1783     0.1273     4.0000e-   9.3200e-    2.9500e-   0.0123      2.5600e-   2.7200e-   5.2700e-    0.0000     37.0535   37.0535    2.9000e-   0.0000   37.0597
                                                     004        003         003                    003        003        003                                         004

   Vendor        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker        3.6000e-   5.2000e-   5.4400e-   1.0000e-   8.8000e-    1.0000e-   8.9000e-    2.3000e-   1.0000e-   2.4000e-    0.0000     0.8517    0.8517     5.0000e-   0.0000   0.8527
                    004        004        003        005        004         005        004         004        005        004                                         005

    Total        0.0113     0.1789     0.1327     4.1000e-   0.0102      2.9600e-   0.0132      2.7900e-   2.7300e-   5.5100e-    0.0000     37.9053   37.9053    3.4000e-   0.0000   37.9124
                                                     004                    003                    003        003        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 12 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.1584    0.9488     0.6602   9.7000e-                0.0653    0.0653                 0.0631     0.0631      0.0000     82.0526   82.0526    0.0189     0.0000   82.4500
                                               004

    Total     0.1584    0.9488     0.6602   9.7000e-                0.0653    0.0653                 0.0631     0.0631      0.0000     82.0526   82.0526    0.0189     0.0000   82.4500
                                               004




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Vendor    2.6500e-   0.0270     0.0331   6.0000e-   1.6200e-    4.5000e-   2.0800e-    4.6000e-   4.2000e-   8.8000e-    0.0000     5.2614    5.2614     4.0000e-   0.0000   5.2622
                003                            005        003         004        003         004        004        004                                         005

   Worker    2.7500e-   4.0300e-   0.0419   8.0000e-   6.7600e-    6.0000e-   6.8200e-    1.7900e-   6.0000e-   1.8500e-    0.0000     6.5583    6.5583     3.7000e-   0.0000   6.5661
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         003        005        003                                         004

    Total    5.4000e-   0.0310     0.0749   1.4000e-   8.3800e-    5.1000e-   8.9000e-    2.2500e-   4.8000e-   2.7300e-    0.0000     11.8197   11.8197    4.1000e-   0.0000   11.8284
                003                            004        003         004        003         003        004        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 13 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.1584    0.9488     0.6602   9.7000e-                0.0653    0.0653                 0.0631     0.0631      0.0000     82.0525   82.0525    0.0189     0.0000   82.4499
                                               004

    Total     0.1584    0.9488     0.6602   9.7000e-                0.0653    0.0653                 0.0631     0.0631      0.0000     82.0525   82.0525    0.0189     0.0000   82.4499
                                               004




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Vendor    2.6500e-   0.0270     0.0331   6.0000e-   1.6200e-    4.5000e-   2.0800e-    4.6000e-   4.2000e-   8.8000e-    0.0000     5.2614    5.2614     4.0000e-   0.0000   5.2622
                003                            005        003         004        003         004        004        004                                         005

   Worker    2.7500e-   4.0300e-   0.0419   8.0000e-   6.7600e-    6.0000e-   6.8200e-    1.7900e-   6.0000e-   1.8500e-    0.0000     6.5583    6.5583     3.7000e-   0.0000   6.5661
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         003        005        003                                         004

    Total    5.4000e-   0.0310     0.0749   1.4000e-   8.3800e-    5.1000e-   8.9000e-    2.2500e-   4.8000e-   2.7300e-    0.0000     11.8197   11.8197    4.1000e-   0.0000   11.8284
                003                            004        003         004        003         003        004        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 14 of 28                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O       CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.3588    2.2395     1.6031   2.3900e-                0.1489    0.1489                 0.1436     0.1436      0.0000    202.4082   202.4082   0.0445     0.0000   203.3424
                                               003

    Total     0.3588    2.2395     1.6031   2.3900e-                0.1489    0.1489                 0.1436     0.1436      0.0000    202.4082   202.4082   0.0445     0.0000   203.3424
                                               003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O       CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000


   Vendor    5.8000e-   0.0591     0.0761   1.4000e-   4.0200e-    9.3000e-   4.9600e-    1.1500e-   8.6000e-   2.0100e-    0.0000     12.8901   12.8901    9.0000e-   0.0000   12.8920
                003                            004        003         004        003         003        004        003                                         005

   Worker    6.1300e-   9.0100e-   0.0936   2.1000e-   0.0167      1.4000e-   0.0169      4.4500e-   1.3000e-   4.5800e-    0.0000     15.6854   15.6854    8.4000e-   0.0000   15.7031
                003        003                 004                    004                    003        004        003                                         004

    Total     0.0119    0.0681     0.1697   3.5000e-   0.0208      1.0700e-   0.0218      5.6000e-   9.9000e-   6.5900e-    0.0000     28.5754   28.5754    9.3000e-   0.0000   28.5951
                                               004                    003                    003        004        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 15 of 28                                                Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.4 Building Construction - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O       CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.3588    2.2395     1.6031   2.3900e-                0.1489    0.1489                 0.1436     0.1436      0.0000    202.4079   202.4079   0.0445     0.0000   203.3422
                                               003

    Total     0.3588    2.2395     1.6031   2.3900e-                0.1489    0.1489                 0.1436     0.1436      0.0000    202.4079   202.4079   0.0445     0.0000   203.3422
                                               003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O       CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000


   Vendor    5.8000e-   0.0591     0.0761   1.4000e-   4.0200e-    9.3000e-   4.9600e-    1.1500e-   8.6000e-   2.0100e-    0.0000     12.8901   12.8901    9.0000e-   0.0000   12.8920
                003                            004        003         004        003         003        004        003                                         005

   Worker    6.1300e-   9.0100e-   0.0936   2.1000e-   0.0167      1.4000e-   0.0169      4.4500e-   1.3000e-   4.5800e-    0.0000     15.6854   15.6854    8.4000e-   0.0000   15.7031
                003        003                 004                    004                    003        004        003                                         004

    Total     0.0119    0.0681     0.1697   3.5000e-   0.0208      1.0700e-   0.0218      5.6000e-   9.9000e-   6.5900e-    0.0000     28.5754   28.5754    9.3000e-   0.0000   28.5951
                                               004                    003                    003        004        003                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 16 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.0309    0.3211     0.2017   2.9000e-                0.0196    0.0196                 0.0181     0.0181      0.0000     27.5914   27.5914    8.0900e-   0.0000   27.7613
                                               004                                                                                                             003

   Paving     0.0000                                                0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Total     0.0309    0.3211     0.2017   2.9000e-                0.0196    0.0196                 0.0181     0.0181      0.0000     27.5914   27.5914    8.0900e-   0.0000   27.7613
                                               004                                                                                                             003




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




              ROG        NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker    1.2800e-   1.8700e-   0.0194   4.0000e-   3.1400e-    3.0000e-   3.1700e-    8.3000e-   3.0000e-   8.6000e-    0.0000     3.0449    3.0449     1.7000e-   0.0000   3.0486
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         004

    Total    1.2800e-   1.8700e-   0.0194   4.0000e-   3.1400e-    3.0000e-   3.1700e-    8.3000e-   3.0000e-   8.6000e-    0.0000     3.0449    3.0449     1.7000e-   0.0000   3.0486
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                    Page 17 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.5 Paving - 2015
Mitigated Construction On-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



  Off-Road    0.0309    0.3211     0.2017   2.9000e-                0.0196    0.0196                 0.0181     0.0181      0.0000     27.5914   27.5914    8.0900e-   0.0000   27.7613
                                               004                                                                                                             003

   Paving     0.0000                                                0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Total     0.0309    0.3211     0.2017   2.9000e-                0.0196    0.0196                 0.0181     0.0181      0.0000     27.5914   27.5914    8.0900e-   0.0000   27.7613
                                               004                                                                                                             003




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




               ROG       NOx        CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                        PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Category                                                    tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



   Hauling    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Vendor     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Worker    1.2800e-   1.8700e-   0.0194   4.0000e-   3.1400e-    3.0000e-   3.1700e-    8.3000e-   3.0000e-   8.6000e-    0.0000     3.0449    3.0449     1.7000e-   0.0000   3.0486
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         004

    Total    1.2800e-   1.8700e-   0.0194   4.0000e-   3.1400e-    3.0000e-   3.1700e-    8.3000e-   3.0000e-   8.6000e-    0.0000     3.0449    3.0449     1.7000e-   0.0000   3.0486
                003        003                 005        003         005        003         004        005        004                                         004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                            Page 18 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Unmitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                                PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                           tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Archit. Coating   0.3940                                                   0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Off-Road        4.0500e-   0.0261     0.0207     3.0000e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-    0.0000     2.8086    2.8086     3.3000e-   0.0000   2.8155
                      003                              005                    003        003                    003        003                                         004

     Total         0.3980     0.0261     0.0207     3.0000e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-    0.0000     2.8086    2.8086     3.3000e-   0.0000   2.8155
                                                       005                    003        003                    003        003                                         004




Unmitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                                PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                           tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



    Hauling        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Worker         1.3000e-   1.9000e-   2.0200e-   0.0000     3.6000e-     0.0000    3.7000e-    1.0000e-   0.0000     1.0000e-    0.0000     0.3392    0.3392     2.0000e-   0.0000   0.3396
                      004        004        003                   004                    004         004                   004                                         005

     Total         1.3000e-   1.9000e-   2.0200e-   0.0000     3.6000e-     0.0000    3.7000e-    1.0000e-   0.0000     1.0000e-    0.0000     0.3392    0.3392     2.0000e-   0.0000   0.3396
                      004        004        003                   004                    004         004                   004                                         005
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                            Page 19 of 28                                               Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



3.6 Architectural Coating - 2016
Mitigated Construction On-Site




                    ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                                PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                           tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Archit. Coating   0.3940                                                   0.0000    0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


   Off-Road        4.0500e-   0.0261     0.0207     3.0000e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-    0.0000     2.8086    2.8086     3.3000e-   0.0000   2.8155
                      003                              005                    003        003                    003        003                                         004

     Total         0.3980     0.0261     0.0207     3.0000e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-               2.1600e-   2.1600e-    0.0000     2.8086    2.8086     3.3000e-   0.0000   2.8155
                                                       005                    003        003                    003        003                                         004




Mitigated Construction Off-Site




                    ROG        NOx         CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4     N2O      CO2e
                                                                PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

   Category                                                           tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



    Hauling        0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Vendor         0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000     0.0000       0.0000    0.0000       0.0000    0.0000     0.0000      0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000     0.0000   0.0000


    Worker         1.3000e-   1.9000e-   2.0200e-   0.0000     3.6000e-     0.0000    3.7000e-    1.0000e-   0.0000     1.0000e-    0.0000     0.3392    0.3392     2.0000e-   0.0000   0.3396
                      004        004        003                   004                    004         004                   004                                         005

     Total         1.3000e-   1.9000e-   2.0200e-   0.0000     3.6000e-     0.0000    3.7000e-    1.0000e-   0.0000     1.0000e-    0.0000     0.3392    0.3392     2.0000e-   0.0000   0.3396
                      004        004        003                   004                    004         004                   004                                         005




4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                                    Page 20 of 28                                                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM


4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile




                  ROG           NOx        CO          SO2          Fugitive      Exhaust      PM10       Fugitive     Exhaust          PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2        CH4           N2O        CO2e
                                                                     PM10          PM10        Total       PM2.5        PM2.5            Total

  Category                                                                 tons/yr                                                                                             MT/yr



  Mitigated      0.0493       0.1621     0.6020      1.5300e-        0.1044       2.2400e-     0.1067      0.0279      2.0600e-         0.0300     0.0000    118.0658    118.0658     4.6000e-        0.0000    118.1624
                                                        003                          003                                  003                                                            003

 Unmitigated     0.0493       0.1621     0.6020      1.5300e-        0.1044       2.2400e-     0.1067      0.0279      2.0600e-         0.0300     0.0000    118.0658    118.0658     4.6000e-        0.0000    118.1624
                                                        003                          003                                  003                                                            003




4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                           Average Daily Trip Rate                                        Unmitigated                               Mitigated
                     Land Use                                 Weekday                 Saturday          Sunday                            Annual VMT                           Annual VMT

               Junior High School                                 106.92                0.00                0.00                            275,518                                 275,518
                      Total                                       106.92                0.00                0.00                            275,518                                 275,518


4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                          Miles                                               Trip %                                               Trip Purpose %

          Land Use                H-W or C-W         H-S or C-C       H-O or C-NW H-W or C-W H-S or C-C                   H-O or C-NW             Primary         Diverted                Pass-by
     Junior High School                16.60              8.40                 6.90          72.80          22.20                5.00                 63                25                      12




  LDA          LDT1           LDT2             MDV            LHD1               LHD2          MHD               HHD         OBUS                UBUS          MCY           SBUS                    MH
  0.512163     0.060173       0.180257         0.139094      0.042244           0.006664       0.016017       0.031880        0.001940           0.002497     0.004356       0.000592                0.002122



5.0 Energy Detail
4.4 Fleet Mix
Historical Energy Use: N
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                         Page 21 of 28                                                 Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM
Historical Energy Use: N

5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                   ROG        NOx       CO       SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust     PM2.5     Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2       CH4           N2O     CO2e
                                                            PM10        PM10       Total       PM2.5      PM2.5       Total

  Category                                                        tons/yr                                                                                   MT/yr



  Electricity                                                           0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000     0.0000    126.8758   126.8758   3.0000e-      6.2000e-   127.1310
  Mitigated                                                                                                                                                        003           004

  Electricity                                                           0.0000     0.0000                 0.0000     0.0000     0.0000    126.8758   126.8758   3.0000e-      6.2000e-   127.1310
 Unmitigated                                                                                                                                                       003           004

 NaturalGas      2.0000e-    0.0182    0.0153   1.1000e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585    19.7585   3.8000e-      3.6000e-   19.8787
  Mitigated         003                            004                    003        003                    003        003                                         004           004

 NaturalGas      2.0000e-    0.0182    0.0153   1.1000e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-               1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585    19.7585   3.8000e-      3.6000e-   19.8787
 Unmitigated        003                            004                    003        003                    003        003                                         004           004




5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated




                NaturalGa    ROG        NOx       CO        SO2       Fugitive    Exhaust      PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2          CH4     N2O       CO2e
                 s Use                                                 PM10        PM10        Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Land Use      kBTU/yr                                                      tons/yr                                                                                      MT/yr



 Junior High     370260     2.0000e-   0.0182   0.0153     1.1000e-               1.3800e-    1.3800e-              1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585   19.7585       3.8000e-   3.6000e-   19.8787
   School                      003                            004                    003         003                   003        003                                            004        004

    Total                   2.0000e-   0.0182   0.0153     1.1000e-               1.3800e-    1.3800e-              1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585   19.7585       3.8000e-   3.6000e-   19.8787
                               003                            004                    003         003                   003        003                                            004        004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                            Page 22 of 28                                                 Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Mitigated




               NaturalGa       ROG        NOx           CO       SO2      Fugitive    Exhaust      PM10      Fugitive   Exhaust    PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4      N2O       CO2e
                s Use                                                      PM10        PM10        Total      PM2.5      PM2.5      Total

  Land Use      kBTU/yr                                                          tons/yr                                                                                  MT/yr



 Junior High    370260       2.0000e-    0.0182     0.0153     1.1000e-               1.3800e-    1.3800e-              1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585   19.7585    3.8000e-   3.6000e-   19.8787
   School                       003                               004                    003         003                   003        003                                         004        004

    Total                    2.0000e-    0.0182     0.0153     1.1000e-               1.3800e-    1.3800e-              1.3800e-   1.3800e-    0.0000     19.7585   19.7585    3.8000e-   3.6000e-   19.8787
                                003                               004                    003         003                   003        003                                         004        004




5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Unmitigated




               Electricity   Total CO2    CH4           N2O     CO2e
                  Use

  Land Use      kWh/yr                          MT/yr



 Junior High    227800       126.8758    3.0000e-   6.2000e-   127.1310
   School                                   003        004

    Total                    126.8758    3.0000e-   6.2000e-   127.1310
                                            003        004
  CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                              Page 23 of 28                                              Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
Mitigated




                Electricity   Total CO2    CH4            N2O       CO2e
                   Use

  Land Use       kWh/yr                           MT/yr



 Junior High     227800       126.8758    3.0000e-    6.2000e-     127.1310
   School                                    003         004

    Total                     126.8758    3.0000e-    6.2000e-     127.1310
                                             003         004




6.0 Area Detail

6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                    ROG          NOx         CO            SO2      Fugitive    Exhaust   PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4   N2O       CO2e
                                                                     PM10        PM10     Total       PM2.5      PM2.5     Total

   Category                                                                tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr



   Mitigated       0.1623      1.0000e-   8.6000e-        0.0000                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                                  005        004                                                                                                 003        003                          003

  Unmitigated      0.1623      1.0000e-   8.6000e-        0.0000                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                                  005        004                                                                                                 003        003                          003
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                                      Page 24 of 28                                              Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive    Exhaust   PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4   N2O       CO2e
                                                            PM10        PM10     Total       PM2.5      PM2.5     Total

 SubCategory                                                      tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr



 Architectural   0.0394                                                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
   Coating

  Consumer       0.1229                                                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     8.0000e-   1.0000e-   8.6000e-   0.0000                0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                    005        005        004                                                                                           003        003                          003

     Total       0.1623     1.0000e-   8.6000e-   0.0000                0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                               005        004                                                                                           003        003                          003




Mitigated




                  ROG        NOx         CO        SO2     Fugitive    Exhaust   PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio- CO2 Total CO2      CH4   N2O       CO2e
                                                            PM10        PM10     Total       PM2.5      PM2.5     Total

 SubCategory                                                      tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr



  Consumer       0.1229                                                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
   Products

 Landscaping     8.0000e-   1.0000e-   8.6000e-   0.0000                0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                    005        005        004                                                                                           003        003                          003

 Architectural   0.0394                                                 0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000     0.0000    0.0000     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
   Coating

     Total       0.1623     1.0000e-   8.6000e-   0.0000                0.0000   0.0000                0.0000    0.0000    0.0000    1.6400e-   1.6400e-   0.0000   0.0000   1.7300e-
                               005        004                                                                                           003        003                          003



7.0 Water Detail
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                          Page 25 of 28   Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM


7.1 Mitigation Measures Water




                Total CO2     CH4             N2O           CO2e


  Category                            MT/yr



  Mitigated      3.7570     5.3000e-      1.4000e-          3.9120
                               003           004

 Unmitigated     3.7570     5.3000e-      1.4000e-          3.9121
                               003           004




7.2 Water by Land Use
Unmitigated




               Indoor/Out   Total CO2         CH4           N2O      CO2e
                door Use

  Land Use       Mgal                               MT/yr



 Junior High     0.16 /      3.7570      5.3000e-       1.4000e-     3.9121
   School      0.411428                     003            004

    Total                    3.7570      5.3000e-       1.4000e-     3.9121
                                            003            004
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                           Page 26 of 28   Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



7.2 Water by Land Use
Mitigated




                Indoor/Out   Total CO2         CH4           N2O      CO2e
                 door Use

  Land Use        Mgal                               MT/yr



 Junior High      0.16 /      3.7570      5.3000e-       1.4000e-     3.9120
   School       0.411428                     003            004

    Total                     3.7570      5.3000e-       1.4000e-     3.9120
                                             003            004




8.0 Waste Detail

8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste


Category/Year




                 Total CO2     CH4             N2O           CO2e


                                       MT/yr



   Mitigated      2.4440      0.1444       0.0000            5.4772


  Unmitigated     2.4440      0.1444       0.0000            5.4772
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2                                              Page 27 of 28                         Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM



8.2 Waste by Land Use
Unmitigated




                  Waste     Total CO2    CH4           N2O   CO2e
                 Disposed

  Land Use         tons                        MT/yr



 Junior High      12.04       2.4440    0.1444     0.0000    5.4772
   School

    Total                     2.4440    0.1444     0.0000    5.4772




Mitigated




                  Waste     Total CO2    CH4           N2O   CO2e
                 Disposed

  Land Use         tons                        MT/yr



 Junior High      12.04       2.4440    0.1444     0.0000    5.4772
   School

    Total                     2.4440    0.1444     0.0000    5.4772




9.0 Operational Offroad

             Equipment Type                      Number               Hours/Day       Days/Year   Horse Power   Load Factor      Fuel Type
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2013.2.2   Page 28 of 28   Date: 5/8/2014 3:39 PM


10.0 Vegetation
CO Hotspots
BAY AREA AQMD SIMPLIFIED CALINE4 ANALYSIS; UPDATED WITH EMFAC2007

Project Title:                                              MORCS Charter School
Intersection:                                               1577 South Berendo Street, Los Angeles
Analysis Condition:                                         Future w/Project
Nearest Air Monitoring Station measuring CO:                Wilshire Blvd at Sawtelle Blvd, Los Angeles, CA
Background 1-hour CO Concentration (ppm):                   2.0
Background 8-hour CO Concentration (ppm):                   1.4
Persistence Factor:                                         0.7
Analysis Year:                                              2015
                                                                                                          Approach/Departure
                                                                                                No. of          Speed
                                                                           Roadway Type         Lanes      A.M.       P.M.
North-South Roadway:                Vermont Ave                             AT GRADE              4         5           5
East-West Roadway:                  Olympic Blvd                            AT GRADE              4         5           5


EMFAC2007 COMPOSITE EMISSION FACTORS FOR CO

Air Basin:          South Coast           County:                LosAngeles
Assumes lowest mean wintertime temperature of 47 degrees F and 52% humidity.

                                                      Average Speed (miles per hour)
Year                 5          8          11          14        17         20          23                26          29           32
2010             6.419      5.647       5.034       4.542     4.142      3.818       3.553             3.333        3.15            3
2011             5.798      5.116       4.572       4.134     3.777      3.487       3.249             3.051       2.886        2.749
2012             5.251      4.645       4.161        3.77     3.451       3.19       2.976             2.797       2.647        2.522
2013             4.757       4.22        3.79        3.44     3.154       2.92       2.728             2.566        2.43        2.316
2014             4.323      3.844        3.46       3.146     2.889      2.679       2.505             2.359       2.235         2.13
2015             3.937       3.51       3.165       2.883     2.651      2.461       2.305             2.172       2.059        1.963
2020             2.646      2.387       2.174       1.997      1.85      1.728       1.627             1.539       1.464        1.398
2025             1.949       1.77       1.621       1.496     1.392      1.306       1.233              1.17       1.115        1.067
2030             1.615      1.471        1.35       1.248     1.163      1.093       1.034             0.983       0.937        0.898
2035             1.403      1.276        1.17       1.081     1.007      0.946       0.896             0.852       0.813        0.779
2040             1.283      1.164       1.065       0.982     0.913      0.858       0.813             0.773       0.738        0.706




PEAK HOUR TURNING VOLUMES
                 AM Peak                                                                            PM Peak
       N                                                                          N
             136   1,231    138                                                               145      1,030           133
W          <       v      >                             E             W                   <            v           >                E
     107 ^                    ^                        62                     200 ^                                     ^         124
   1,617 >                    <                     1,398                   1,775 >                                     <       1,339
     132 v                    v                        64                     112 v                                     v          83
           <       ^      >                                                               <            ^           >
             132   1,317     69                                                               157      1,237            87
       S                                                                          S

Representative Traffic Volumes (Vehicles per Hour)

           N-S Road                     2,991                                         N-S Road                     2,869
           E-W Road                     3,522                                         E-W Road                     3,728
           Primary Road =           E-W Road                                          Primary Road =           E-W Road

ROADWAY CO CONTRIBUTIONS

                          Reference CO Concentrations                   Traffic                     Emission
Roadway                  0 Feet     25 Feet    50 Feet                  Volume                       Factor

A.M. Peak Hour

N-S Road                 3.3           2.6         2.2          *         2,991           *          3.94          ÷         100,000
E-W Road                 11.9          7.0         5.4          *         3,522           *          3.94          ÷         100,000

P.M. Peak Hour

N-S Road                 3.3           2.6         2.2          *         2,869           *          3.94          ÷         100,000
E-W Road                 11.9          7.0         5.4          *         3,728           *          3.94          ÷         100,000


TOTAL CO CONCENTRATIONS (ppm)

                                                                    AM Peak Hour                PM Peak Hour                 8-Hour
        0 Feet from Roadway Edge                                           4.0                          4.1                       2.9
       25 Feet from Roadway Edge                                           3.3                          3.3                       2.3
       50 Feet from Roadway Edge                                           3.0                          3.0                       2.1
     APPENDIX B
Geotechnical Study
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page iii



                                  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The following is the summary of our geotechnical study, findings, conclusions, and
recommendations, as presented in the body of this report. Please refer to the
appropriate sections of the report for complete conclusions and recommendations. In
the event of a conflict between this summary and the report, or an omission in the
summary, the report shall prevail.

•   The project site is located on the northeastern portion of the the existing Berendo
    Middle School. The proposed development consists of construction of a new two-
    story school facility with about 32,000 square feet on an existing 85,000 square feet
    site with two-story classrooms, administration, subterranean parking garage, lunch
    shelter, multipurpose room and playfield.
•   Ten (10) exploratory borings (BH-1 through BH-10) were drilled within the project site
    on July 30 and August 2, 2013. The borings were advanced using a truck mounted 8-
    inch diameter hollow stem auger drill rig to depths ranging from 11.5 to 51.5 feet below
    the existing ground surface (bgs).
•   The earth materials encountered during our investigation consist of existing fill soils
    placed during previous site grading and/or demolition operations and native alluvial
    soils. The fill soils encountered are described as clayey sand, sandy clay, and sand
    with silt. Thicker fill may be encountered in the other areas of the site. Alluvial soils
    below the fill consist of clayey sand, sandy clay, silty sand and sandy silt.
•   Groundwater was not encountered in our exploratory borings to a maximum depth of
    51.5 feet. Groundwater is not anticipated during construction and will not need to be
    considered in design.
•   The project site is not located within a currently designated State of California
    Earthquake Fault Zone (formerly Alquist-Priolo Special Studies Zones) for surface fault
    rupture. No surface faults are known to project through or towards the site.
•   Based on the results of our liquefaction analyses, the site is not considered
    susceptible to liquefaction.
•   The proposed at-grade buildings should be supported on conventional spread
    footings bearing into compacted fill. The proposed building with subterranean
    garage should be supported on native soils.
•   The on-site soil is not considered corrosive to concrete.
•   The on-site soil is considered corrosive to ferrous metal. Protections of underground
    metal pipe should be considered.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page iv


•   Undocumented fills were encountered up to 2 to 10 feet in depth across the site.
    These fills and disturbed soils are not suitable for foundation support and require
    remedial grading.
•   Soil can be excavated with conventional heavy-duty earthmoving equipments.
•   The onsite soils have “Medium” expansive potential which requires mitigation.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                                       Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                                            Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                                1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                                    Los Angeles, California
                                                                                                        February 21, 2014
                                                                                                                    Page v

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.0      INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 1
2.0      SITE AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................. 1
  2.1       SITE DESCRIPTION ....................................................................................................... 1
3.0      SCOPE OF WORK............................................................................................... 1
  3.1       SITE RECONNAISSANCE ................................................................................................ 2
  3.2       SUBSURFACE EXPLORATION AND PERCOLATION TESTING ............................................... 2
  3.3       LABORATORY TESTING ................................................................................................. 2
  3.4       ANALYSES AND REPORT ............................................................................................... 3
4.0      SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS ............................................................................. 3
  4.1       REGIONAL GEOLOGIC SETTINGS ................................................................................... 3
  4.2       SUBSURFACE SOIL PROFILE OF PROJECT SITE .............................................................. 3
  4.3       GROUNDWATER ........................................................................................................... 3
  4.4       SUBSURFACE VARIATIONS ............................................................................................ 4
5.0      FAULTING AND GEOLOGIC HAZARDS ............................................................ 4
  5.1       FAULT SURFACE RUPTURE AND ACTIVE FAULTS............................................................. 4
  5.2       HISTORICAL SEISMICITY ................................................................................................ 4
  5.3       LIQUEFACTION AND SEISMIC SETTLEMENT ..................................................................... 5
  5.4       LANDSLIDES ................................................................................................................. 5
  5.5       FLOODING AND INUNDATION .......................................................................................... 5
  5.6       METHANE HAZARD ....................................................................................................... 6
6.0      SEISMIC ANALYSIS ............................................................................................ 6
  6.1       CBC SEISMIC DESIGN PARAMETERS ............................................................................. 6
  6.2       SITE-SPECIFIC GROUND MOTION RESPONSE SPECTRUM................................................ 7
  6.3       DEAGGREGATED SEISMIC SOURCE PARAMETERS .......................................................... 9
7.0      DESIGN RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................... 9
  7.1       GENERAL EVALUATION ................................................................................................. 9
  7.2       SHALLOW FOUNDATIONS .............................................................................................10
  7.3       POLE FOUNDATIONS ....................................................................................................11
  7.4       SLABS-ON-GRADE .......................................................................................................12
  7.5       EARTH PRESSURES FOR RETAINING STRUCTURES ........................................................13
  7.6       SOIL CORROSIVITY EVALUATION ..................................................................................14
  7.7       SITE DRAINAGE ...........................................................................................................14
  7.8       PERCOLATION RATES FOR STORMWATER INFILTRATION SYSTEM ...................................14
  7.9       FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................................................15
  7.10      RIGID PAVEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................................................16
8.0      SITE GRADING AND EARTHWORK RECOMMENDATIONS .......................... 17
  8.1       GENERAL ....................................................................................................................17




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                                    Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                                         Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                             1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                                 Los Angeles, California
                                                                                                     February 21, 2014
                                                                                                                 Page vi

  8.2      OVER-EXCAVATION/REMOVAL ......................................................................................17
  8.3      ENGINEERED FILL........................................................................................................18
  8.4      EXCAVATABILITY .........................................................................................................18
  8.5      EXPANSIVE SOIL .........................................................................................................19
  8.6      SHRINKAGE AND SUBSIDENCE ......................................................................................19
9.0     CONSTRUCTION CONSIDERATIONS ............................................................. 20
  9.1      TEMPORARY EXCAVATIONS ..........................................................................................20
  9.2      SHORING DESIGN ........................................................................................................20
  9.3      GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES DURING CONSTRUCTION ......................................................21
10.0    CLOSURE .......................................................................................................... 22
11.0    REFERENCES ................................................................................................... 23

                                                          TABLES
                                                                                                                        Page No.

Table No. 1, 2013 CBC Seismic Parameters.....….……………………………….….…………...                                                            6
Table No. 2, 2013 CBC Mapped Acceleration Parameters...……………………….……..........                                                    7
Table No. 3, Site-Specific Response Spectrum Data …………………..….……………………                                                            8
Table No. 4, Site-Specific Seismic Design Parameters …………………………………………                                                            8
Table No. 5, Lateral Earth Pressures for Retaining Wall Design ...……………………….…….                                                  13
Table No. 6, Percolation Testing Results…………………..….…………………………………..                                                               15
Table No. 7, Flexible Pavement Structural Sections……………………………………………..                                                            15
Table No. 8, Rigid Pavement Structural Sections………………………………………………...                                                             16
Table No. 9, Slope Ratios for Temporary Excavations…………………………………………..                                                            20

                                                       DRAWINGS
                                                                                                          Following Page No.

Drawing No. 1, Site Location Map…………….………………………….…………………….…….                                                                    1
Drawing No. 2, Site Plan and Boring Locations..…..…………………….……………..……...…                                                         1
Drawing No. 3, Regional Geologic Map…………………………….…….……….........................                                                  3
Drawing No. 4a, Geologic Cross Section A-A’…………………….…….………..........................                                             3
Drawing No. 4b, Geologic Cross Section B-B’…………………….…….………..........................                                             3
Drawing No. 4c, Geologic Cross Section C-C’……………………………………………………                                                                  3
Drawing No. 5, Southern California Regional Fault Map…………………….………….…..…....                                                      4
Drawing No. 6, Epicenter Map of Southern California Earthquakes (1800-1999)……….…….                                               4
Drawing No. 7, Seismic Hazard Zones Map…………………….………….…..…...……….…….                                                              5
Drawing No. 8, Site-Specific Seismic Design Response Spectrum……….……...……….…….                                                    8

                                                     APPENDICES
Appendix A………..……………………………..……………………….………………Field Exploration



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page vii

Appendix B….…………………………………………………..…………...Laboratory Testing Program
Appendix C.………………………………………………………………………..…..Percolation Testing
Appendix D.………………………………………….………Liquefaction/Seismic Settlement Analyses
Appendix E.……………………………………..……………………….………Earthwork Specifications




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 1

1.0    INTRODUCTION

This report contains the findings and recommendations of our geoseismic/geotechnical
study performed for the proposed two-story school facility project in Monsenor Oscar
Romero Charter School (MORCS) located at 1157 South Berendo Street in Los Angeles,
California. The project site is shown on Drawing No. 1, Site Location Map. The purpose
of this study was to evaluate the subsurface soil conditions and provide geotechnical
recommendations and design recommendations for the design and construction of the
proposed project, including current standard of practice seismic and geotechnical
engineering interpretations.

This report for geologic and geotechnical design parameters for the project described
herein and is intended for use solely by the Pacific Charter School Development, Inc.
and their design team. This report should not be used as a bidding document but may
be made available to the potential contractors for information on faculty data only. For
bidding purposes, the contractors should be responsible for making their own
interpretation of the data contained in this report.

2.0    SITE AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION

2.1    Site Description

The project site is located on the northeastern portion of the the existing Berendo
Middle School. The ground surface is relatively flat and the ground elevation is
approximate 210 feet above Mean Sea Level (MSL). The coordinates for the project
site are: North latitude: 34.0505 degrees and West longitude: 118.2942 degrees. The
project site is depicted on Drawing No. 2, Site Plan and Boring Locations.

The proposed development consists of construction of a new two-story school facility
with about 32,000 square feet on an 85,000 square feet site with two-story classrooms,
administration, subterranean parking garage, lunch shelter, multipurpose room and
playfield. The subterranean parking garage will be about 10 feet below the existing
ground surface.

3.0    SCOPE OF WORK

The scope of our present study includes site reconnaissance, subsurface exploration, soil
sampling, laboratory testing, engineering analysis, and preparation of this report. Details
of the tasks are addressed in the following sections:




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 2

3.1    Site Reconnaissance

A Converse engineer conducted a site reconnaissance on July 24, 2013. The purpose of
the reconnaissance was to evaluate site conditions with respect to the location of the
borings and drill rig accessibility.

3.2    Subsurface Exploration and Percolation Testing

Ten (10) exploratory borings (BH-1 through BH-10) were drilled within the project site on
July 30 and August 2, 2013. The borings were advanced using a truck mounted 8-inch
diameter hollow stem auger drill rig to depths ranging from 11.5 to 51.5 feet below the
existing ground surface (bgs). Every boring was visually logged by a Converse engineer
and sampled at regular intervals and at changes in subsurface soils. The Boring locations
are shown on Drawing No. 2, Site Plan and Boring Locations. Detailed descriptions of the
field exploration and sampling program are presented in Appendix A, Field Exploration.

California Modified Sampler (Ring samples), Standard Penetration Test samples, and bulk
soil samples were obtained for laboratory testing. Standard Penetration Tests (SPTs) were
performed in selected borings at selected intervals using a standard (1.4 inches inside
diameter and 2.0 inches outside diameter) split-barrel sampler. The bore holes were
backfilled and compacted with soil cuttings by reverse spinning of the auger following the
completion of drilling and patched with asphalt.

Borings BH-6 and BH-8 were utilized for percolation tests prior to backfill. Percolation test
procedures and test results are further discussed in Appendix C, Percolation Testing.

3.3    Laboratory Testing

Representative samples of the site soils were tested in the laboratory to aid in the
classification and to evaluate relevant engineering properties. The tests performed
included:
• In situ moisture contents and dry densities (ASTM Standard D2216)
• Grain-Size Analysis (ASTM D422)
• Maximum dry density and optimum-moisture content relationship (ASTM Standard
    D1557)
• Passing sieve no.200 (ASTM D1140)
• Direct shear (ASTM Standard D3080)
• Consolidation (ASTM Standard D2435)
• Expansion Index (ASTM D4829)
• R-value (ASTM D2844)
• Soil corrosivity tests (Caltrans 643, 422, 417 and 532)




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 3

Detailed description of the laboratory test methods and test results are presented in
Appendix B, Laboratory Testing Program.

3.4    Analyses and Report

Data obtained from the exploratory fieldwork and laboratory-testing program were
analyzed and evaluated with respect to the planned construction. This report was
prepared to provide the findings, conclusions and recommendations developed during our
study and evaluation.

4.0    SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS

4.1    Regional Geologic Settings

The project site is located within the central portion of the Los Angeles Basin and
underlain by alluvial soils. Drawing No. 3, Regional Geologic Map, based on the Seismic
Hazard Zone Report for the Hollywood 7.5 Minute Quadrangles (CDMG, 1998), has been
prepared to show the location of the project site with respect to the regional geology.

4.2    Subsurface Soil Profile of Project Site

The earth materials encountered during our investigation consist of existing fill soils
placed during previous site grading and/or demolition operations and native alluvial
soils. Based on our field exploration, approximate two (2) to ten (10) feet of
undocumented fill or disturbed soils were encountered in our borings across the site.
Thicker undocumented fill soils may be encountered on the site and should be
anticipated during grading. The fill soils encountered are described as clayey sand,
sandy clay, and sand with silt. Thicker fill may be encountered in the other areas of the
site. Alluvial soils below the fill consist of clayey sand, sandy clay, silty sand and sandy
silt to a maximum depth of 51.5 feet below ground surface (bgs). The alluvial soils are
generally medium dense to dense.

Drawing No. 4a, 4b and 4c Geologic Cross Sections A-A’, B-B’ and C-C’ are prepared to
illustrate the subsurface soil profiles at the site. Detailed description of the materials
encountered in each boring is presented in Appendix A, Field Exploration.

4.3    Groundwater

Groundwater was not encountered in our exploratory borings to a maximum depth of
51.5 feet. In accordance with the Seismic Hazard Zone Report for the Hollywood 7.5-
Minute Quadrangle, Los Angeles County, California (CDMG, 1998), the historically highest




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 4

groundwater level is reportedly deeper than 50 feet. Groundwater is not anticipated
during construction and will not need to be considered in design.

4.4    Subsurface Variations

Based on results of the subsurface exploration and our experience, some variations in
the continuity and nature of subsurface conditions within the project site should be
anticipated. Because of the uncertainties involved in the nature and geologic
characteristics of the earth material at the site, care should be exercised in interpolating
or extrapolating subsurface conditions between or beyond the boring locations. If
during construction, subsurface conditions differ significantly from those presented in
this report; this office should be notified immediately so that recommendations can be
modified, if necessary.

5.0    FAULTING AND GEOLOGIC HAZARDS

Geologic hazards are defined as geologically related conditions that may present a
potential danger to life and property. Typical geologic hazards in Southern California
include earthquake ground shaking, fault surface rupture, landslides, and liquefaction.

5.1    Fault Surface Rupture and Active Faults

The project site is not located within a currently designated State of California Earthquake
Fault Zone (formerly Alquist-Priolo Special Studies Zones) for surface fault rupture. No
surface faults are known to project through or towards the site. The nearest capable fault
with a mappable surface trace is the Hollywood fault system located approximately 6.2
km (3.8 miles) away from the site to the north. The approximate locations of regional
faults with respect to the project site are shown on Drawing No. 5, Southern California
Regional Fault Map.

5.2    Historical Seismicity

We have reviewed California Geologic Survey Map Sheet 49, Epicenters and Areas
Damaged by M ≥ 5 California Earthquakes, 1800-1999, (CGS, Toppozada et al., 2000).
The mapped epicenters of earthquake with magnitude 5.0 or greater in Southern
California during the past 200 years are shown on Drawing No. 6, Epicenters Map of
Southern California Earthquakes (1800-1999).

An assessment of the recent seismic events in proximity to the project was performed
using data provided in the Southern California Earthquake Center (SCEC) and the
Consortium of Organizations for Strong-Motion Observation Systems (COSMOS)
databases. Strong-motion stations within 5 km of the project site with similar subsurface




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 5

geology experienced peak horizontal ground accelerations below 0.20g during the 1994
Northridge earthquake.

5.3    Liquefaction and Seismic Settlement

Liquefaction is the sudden decrease in the strength of cohesionless soils due to
dynamic or cyclic shaking. Saturated soils behave temporarily as a viscous fluid
(liquefaction) and, consequently, lose their capacity to support the structures founded
on them. The potential for liquefaction decreases with increasing clay and gravel
content, but increases as the ground acceleration and duration of shaking increase.
Liquefaction potential has been found to be the greatest where the groundwater level
and loose sands occur within 50 feet of the ground surface. The site is not located
within a mapped Seismic Hazard Zone for liquefaction (CDMG, 1998) as shown in
Drawing No. 7, Seismic Hazard Zones Map.

Based on the results of our liquefaction analyses, the site is not considered susceptible
to liquefaction. Based on our seismic settlement analyses presented in Appendix D, the
estimated seismic dry-sand settlement is approximately 0.3 inches with differential
settlement of 0.2 inch.

Lateral Spreading: Seismically induced lateral spreading involves primarily lateral
movement of earth materials due to ground shaking. It differs from the slope failure in that
complete ground failure involving large movement does not occur due to the relatively
smaller gradient of the initial ground surface. Lateral spreading is demonstrated by near-
vertical cracks with predominantly horizontal movement of the soil mass involved. The
topography at the project site and in the immediate vicinity of the site is relatively flat, with
no nearby descending slopes or embankments. Under these circumstances, the potential
for lateral spreading at the subject site is considered negligible.

5.4    Landslides

The site is not located within a Seismic Hazard Zone for required investigation for
earthquake-induced land sliding (CDMG, 1999). The project site is relatively flat and not
located near any hillside terrain. In the absence of significant ground slopes, the
potential for seismically induced landslides to affect the proposed site is considered to
be nil.

5.5    Flooding and Inundation

Flooding: Review of the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), Los Angeles
County Map Number 06037C1620F, effective date September 26, 2008, indicates that
the site is located within an area designated as Zone X, Other Flood Areas (described
as area with a 0.2% annual chance flood; areas of 1% annual chance flood with



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 6

average depths of less than 1 foot or with drainage areas less than 1 square mile; and
areas protected by levees from 1% annual chance flood).

Tsunamis: Tsunamis are seismic sea waves generated by fault displacement or major
ground movement. The site is located approximately 22 miles distant from the ocean.
Review of the California Emergency management Agency – Tsunami Inundation Map for
Emergency Planning (2009), indicates the site is not located within or adjacent to a
tsunamis influence area. Tsunamis do not pose a hazard to the project.

Seiches: Seiches are large waves generated in enclosed bodies of water in response to
ground shaking. Based on site location away from lakes and reservoirs, seiches do not
appear to pose a hazard.

5.6    Methane Hazard

Based on review of available maps, the project site is not located within a methane
hazard zone defined by the City of Los Angeles. Mitigation is not necessary.

6.0    SEISMIC ANALYSIS

6.1    CBC Seismic Design Parameters

Seismic parameters based on the 2010 California Building Code are calculated using
the United States Geological Survey computer program Seismic Hazards Curves,
Response Parameters and Design Parameters, Version 5.1.0a. In addition, we have
calculated the seismic design parameter based on 2013 CBC utilizing the USGS on-line
Seismic Design Maps. The seismic parameters are presented below.

Table No. 1, CBC Seismic Parameters
                  Seismic Parameters                                    2010 CBC          2013 CBC
 Site Class                                                                  E                    E
 Mapped Short period (0.2-sec) Spectral Response Acceleration, SS          1.994g            2.258g
 Mapped 1-second Spectral Response Acceleration, S1                        0.677g            0.795g
 Site Coefficient (from Table 1613.5.3(1)), Fa                               0.9               0.9
 Site Coefficient (from Table 1613.5.3(2)), Fv                               2.4               2.4
 MCE 0.2-sec period Spectral Response Acceleration, SMS                    1.795g            2.032g
 MCE 1-second period Spectral Response Acceleration, SM1                   1.626g            1.908g
 Design Spectral Response Acceleration for short period, SDS               1.196g            1.355g
 Design Spectral Response Acceleration for 1-second period, SD1            1.084g            1.272g
 Seismic Design Category                                                     D                    E




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 7

6.2      Site-Specific Ground Motion Response Spectrum

The project site is not located within a currently designated State of California Earthquake
Fault Zones (formerly Alquist-Priolo Special Studies Zones) or fault zones designated in
the Safety Element of a Local General Plan. However, based on 2013 CBC Section
1616A.1.3, a site-specific ground motion analysis is required. A site-specific response
spectrum was developed for the project for a Maximum Considered Earthquake (MCE),
defined as a horizontal peak ground acceleration that has a 2 percent probability of
being exceeded in 50 years (return period of approximately 2,475 years).

In accordance with ASCE 7-10, Section 21.2 and Code Application Notice (CAN 2-
1802A.6.2) the site-specific response spectra can be taken as the lesser of the
probabilistic maximum rotated component of MCE ground motion and the 84th percentile
of deterministic maximum rotated component of MCE ground motion response spectra.
The design response spectra can be taken as 2/3 of site-specific MCE response
spectra, but should not be lower than 80 percent of CBC general response spectra. The
risk coefficient CR has been incorporated at each spectral response period for which the
acceleration was computed in accordance with ASCE 7-10, Section 21.2.1.1.

The 2013 CBC mapped acceleration parameters are provided in the following table.
These parameters were determined using the United States Geological Survey U.S.
Seismic Design Maps website application, and in accordance with ASCE 7-10 Sections
11.4, 11.6, 11.8 and 21.2.

Table No. 2, 2013 CBC Mapped Acceleration Parameters
      Site Class            E               Seismic Design Category                 E
         Ss               2.258                        CRS                        0.965
         S1               0.795                        CR1                        0.981
         Fa                0.9                      0.08 Fv/Fa                    0.213
         Fv                2.4                       0.4 Fv/Fa                    1.067
         SMS              2.032                         T0                        0.188
         SM1              1.908                         TS                        0.939
         SDS              1.355                         TL                          8
         SD1              1.272


A Site-Specific response analysis, using faults within 100 kilometers of the site, was
developed using the computer program EZ-FRISK by Risk Engineering (v. 7.62) and the
2008 USGS Fault Model database. Attenuation relationships proposed by Boore and
Atkinson (2008), Campbell and Bozorgnia (2008), Chiou and Youngs (2008) were used
in the analysis. These attenuation relationships are based on Next Generation
Attenuation (NGA) project model. Maximum rotated components were determined



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                                    Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                                         Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                             1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                                 Los Angeles, California
                                                                                                     February 21, 2014
                                                                                                                 Page 8

   using Huang (2008) method. An average shear wave velocity at upper 30 meters of soil
   profile (Vs30) of 180 meters per second, depth to bedrock of with a shear wave velocity
   1,000 meters per second at 150 meters below grade, and depth of bedrock where the
   shear wave velocity is 2,500 meters per second at 3,000 meters below grade were
   selected for EZ-Frisk Analysis.

   Applicable response spectra data are presented in the table below and on Drawing No.
   8, Site-Specific Design Response Spectrum. These curves correspond to response
   values obtained from above attenuation relations for horizontal elastic single-degree-of-
   freedom systems with equivalent viscous damping of 5 percent of critical damping.

Table No. 3, Site-Specific Response Spectrum Data
                                       Probabilistic
          2% in 50yr                                                                     Site Specific              Site Specific
                                          MCER         84th Percentile                                   80% CBC
         Probabilistic     Risk                                          Deterministic       MCER                      Design
Period                                   Spectral       Deterministic                                     Design
           Spectral      Coefficient                                      CBC Lower        Spectral                   Spectral
 (sec)                                 Acceleration    MCE Response                                      Response
         Acceleration       CR                                             Level, (g)    Acceleration               Acceleration
                                           (g)           Spectra, (g)                                    Spectrum
             (g)                                                                              (g)                        (g)

0.03        0.691          0.965          0.667            0.656            0.127           0.656         0.537        0.537
0.05        0.750          0.965          0.724            0.705            0.211           0.705         0.607        0.607
0.10        1.010          0.965          0.975            0.908            0.422           0.908         0.780        0.780
0.20        1.274          0.965          1.229            1.201            1.500           1.229         1.084        1.084
0.30        1.459          0.967          1.411            1.437            1.500           1.411         1.084        1.084
0.40        1.438          0.969          1.393            1.471            1.500           1.393         1.084        1.084
0.50        1.452          0.971          1.410            1.521            1.500           1.410         1.084        1.084
0.75        1.363          0.976          1.330            1.517            1.920           1.330         1.084        1.084
1.00        1.215          0.981          1.192            1.424            1.440           1.192         1.018        1.018
2.00        0.922          0.981          0.904            1.396            0.720           0.904         0.509        0.603
3.00        0.680          0.981          0.667            1.208            0.480           0.667         0.339        0.445
4.00        0.522          0.981          0.512            1.036            0.360           0.512         0.254        0.341

   Vertical acceleration at the site may be calculated using the ASCE 7-10, Section 12.4.

   The site-specific design response parameters are provided in the following table. These
   parameters were determined from Design Response Spectra presented in table above,
   and following guidelines of ASCE Section 21.4.

   Table No. 4, Site-Specific Seismic Design Parameters
                                                                    Design Parameters            Lower Limit, 80% of CBC
                                                                      (5% Damping)                  Design Spectra
       Site-Specific 0.2-second period Spectral Response
                         Acceleration, SMS
                                                                           1.626                           1.626
        Site-Specific1-second period Spectral Response
                         Acceleration, SM1
                                                                           1.808                           1.526




       Converse Consultants
    MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page 9

Site-Specific Design Spectral Response Acceleration
                  for short period SDS
                                                           1.084                        1.084
Site-Specific Design Spectral Response Acceleration
               for 1-second period, SD1
                                                           1.206                        1.018


6.3       Deaggregated Seismic Source Parameters

Based on our analyses utilizing the USGS 2008 NSHMP PSHA Interactive
Deaggregation web site, the mean and modal earthquake magnitudes for a return time
of 2475 years is calculated to be 6.71 and 6.61, respectively. The earthquake
magnitude of 6.71 is assumed for our seismic analyses at the project site.

7.0       DESIGN RECOMMENDATIONS

7.1       General Evaluation

Based on the results of our literature review, subsurface exploration, laboratory testing,
geotechnical analyses, and understanding of the planned site improvements, it is our
opinion that the proposed project is feasible from a geotechnical standpoint, provided
the following conclusions and recommendations are incorporated into the project plans,
specifications, and are followed during site construction. The following geotechnical
findings should be considered for the planned projects:

      •   Undocumented fills were encountered ranging from 2 to 10 feet in depth across
          the site. These fills and disturbed soils are not suitable for foundation support and
          require remedial grading.
      •   The onsite soils have “Medium” expansive potential which requires mitigation.
      •   Groundwater was not encountered in our exploratory borings to a maximum
          depth of 51.5 feet. Groundwater is not anticipated during construction and will not
          need to be considered in design.
      •   The proposed at grade buildings should be supported on spread footings bearing
          into compacted fill.
      •   The proposed building with subterranean garage should be supported on native
          soils.
      •   Soil can be excavated with conventional heavy-duty earthmoving equipments.
      •   The on-site soil is not considered corrosive to concrete. However, the minimum
          saturated resistivity testing result indicates the onsite soil is considered moderate
          corrosive to ferrous metal. Protections of underground metal pipe should be
          considered.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 10

7.2    Shallow Foundations

7.2.1 Vertical Capacity

The proposed buildings can be supported by conventional shallow footings. Isolated
pad footing should be at least 24 inches square, and continuous footing should be at
least 15 inches wide. Footings should be embedded at least 18 inches below lowest
adjacent grade into compacted fill for at-grade structures, and into native soil for
subterranean garage. The footing reinforcement should be based on the structural
design. Conventional spread footings founded on compacted fill and competent native
soils may be designed for a net bearing pressure of 2,500 pounds per square foot (psf)
for dead-plus-live-loads.

The net allowable bearing pressure can be increased by 350 psf for each additional foot
of excavation depth and by 200 psf for each additional foot of excavation width up to a
maximum value of 4,500 psf.

The net allowable bearing values indicated above are for the dead loads and frequently
applied live loads and are obtained by applying a factor of safety of 3.0 to the net
ultimate bearing capacity.

It is understood some buildings are founded partly on the existing grade and partly on
the underground structure. In such case, we recommend the at grade building footings
located within the horizontal distance same as the height of retaining wall should be
deepened. The deepened footing should be at least 18 inches below a 1H:1V plane
projected upward from the base of the retaining wall. As an alternative, drilled piers with
grade beam with minimum 4 feet below 1H:1V planes can be used and be designed for
an allowable skin friction of 250 psf.

7.2.2 Lateral Capacity

Resistance to lateral loads can be provided by friction acting at the base of the
foundation and by passive earth pressure. A coefficient of friction of 0.3 may be
assumed with normal dead load forces. An allowable passive earth pressure of 250 psf
per foot of depth up to a maximum of 4,000 psf may be used for footings poured against
properly compacted fill. The values of coefficient of friction and allowable passive earth
pressure include a factor of safety of 1.5.

7.2.3 Settlement

The static settlement of structures supported on continuous and/or spread footings
founded on compacted fill and native soil will depend on the actual footing dimensions



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 11

and the imposed vertical loads. Most of the footing settlement at the project site is
expected to occur immediately after the application of the load. Based on the maximum
allowable net bearing pressures presented above, static settlement is anticipated to be
less than 0.5 inch. Differential settlement is expected to be up to one-half of the total
settlement over a 30-foot span.

7.2.4 Dynamic Increases

Bearing values indicated above are for total dead load and frequently applied live loads.
The above vertical bearing may be increased by 33% for short durations of loading
which will include the effect of wind or seismic forces. The allowable passive pressure
may be increased by 33% for lateral loading due to wind or seismic forces.

7.3    Pole Foundations

Pole type structures such as light poles, flag poles, signs and fence poles may be
supported on a Cast-In-Drilled-Hole (CIDH) pile foundation provided the following
recommendations incorporated into design and construction.

7.3.1 Vertical Capacity

CIDH Piles should be at least 18-inch in diameter extending to at least 3 feet into
undisturbed native soils or compacted fill, and can be designed for an allowable skin
friction of 200 psf against the perimeter of pile. The diameter and length of CIDH pile
shall be determined by the Structural Engineer based on design loads. The piles can be
connected to a grade beam system determined by the project structural engineer to
control the deflections of structure under the design tolerance. The Uplift capacities can
be taken as one-half of compressive capacities for pile design.

7.3.2 Lateral Capacity

Resistance to lateral loads can be provided by friction acting at the base of the
foundation and by passive earth pressure. A coefficient of friction of 0.3 may be
assumed with normal dead load forces. An allowable passive earth pressure of 250 psf
per foot of depth up to a maximum of 4,000 psf may be used for footings poured against
compacted fill or competent native alluvium. The values of coefficient of friction and
allowable passive earth pressure include a factor of safety of 1.5.

For ground surface restrained by concrete slab, the passive resistance may be
calculated from the ground surface. For unrestrained ground condition, the passive
resistance of the upper one (1) foot earth material should be neglected in design.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 12

7.3.3 Dynamic Increases

Bearing values indicated above are for total dead load and frequently applied live loads.
The above vertical bearing may be increased by 33% for short durations of loading
which will include the effect of wind or seismic forces. The allowable passive pressure
may be increased by 33% for lateral loading due to wind or seismic forces.

7.3.4 Settlement

Based on the maximum allowable net bearing pressures presented above, static
settlement is anticipated to be less than 0.5 inch, and the differential settlement may be
taken as equal to about one half of the total settlement over a horizontal distance of 30
feet.

7.3.5 Dynamic Increases

Bearing values indicated above are for total dead load and frequently applied live loads.
The above vertical bearing may be increased by 33% for short durations of loading
which will include the effect of wind or seismic forces. The allowable passive pressure
may be increased by 33% for lateral loading due to wind or seismic forces.

7.4    Slabs-on-grade

Slabs-on-grade should have a minimum thickness of four inches nominal for support of
normal ground-floor live loads. Minimum reinforcement for slabs-on-grade should be
No. 3 reinforcing bars, spaced at 18 inches on-center each way. The thickness and
reinforcement of more heavily loaded slabs will be dependent upon the anticipated
loads and should be designed by a structural engineer. A static modulus of subgrade
reaction equal to 150 pounds per square inch per inch may be used in structural design
of concrete slabs-on-grade.

It is critical that the exposed subgrade soils should not be allowed to desiccate prior to
the slab pour. Care should be taken during concrete placement to avoid slab curling.
Slabs should be designed and constructed as promulgated by the ACI and Portland
Cement Association (PCA). Prior to the slab pour, all utility trenches should be properly
backfilled and compacted.

In areas where a moisture-sensitive floor covering (such as vinyl tile or carpet) is used,
a 10-mil-thick moisture retarder/barrier between the bottom of slab and subgrade that
meets the performance criteria of ASTM E 1745 Class A material. Retarder/barrier
sheets should be overlapped a minimum of six inches, and should be taped or
otherwise sealed per the product specifications.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                       Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                            Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                    Los Angeles, California
                                                                                        February 21, 2014
                                                                                                   Page 13

7.5    Earth Pressures for Retaining Structures

If retaining wall(s) is proposed, the following design values can be used for the design of
the retaining wall less than 12 feet in height. The earth pressure behind any buried wall
depends primarily on the allowable wall movement, type of soil behind the wall, backfill
slopes, wall inclination, surcharges, and any hydrostatic pressure. The following earth
pressures are recommended for vertical walls with no hydrostatic pressure.
Table No. 5, Lateral Earth Pressures for Retaining Wall Design
                                             Cantilever Wall
                                                                                 Restrained Wall
      Backfill Slope (H:V)             Equivalent Fluid Pressure
                                                                                      (psf)
                                                   (pcf)
                                                     40                                 35H
              Level
                                     (triangular pressure distribution)    (uniform pressure distribution)

The recommended lateral pressures assume that the walls are fully back-drained to
prevent build-up of hydrostatic pressure. Adequate drainage could be provided by
means of permeable drainage materials wrapped in filter fabric installed behind the
walls. The drainage system should consist of perforated pipe surrounded by a minimum
one (1) square feet per lineal feet of free draining, uniformly graded, ¾ -inch washed,
crushed aggregate, and wrapped in filter fabric such as Mirafi 140N or equivalent. The
filter fabric should overlap approximately 12 inches or more at the joints. The subdrain
pipe should consist of perforated, four-inch diameter, rigid ABS (SDR-35) or PVC A-
2000, or equivalent, with perforations placed down. Alternatively, a prefabricated
drainage composite system such as the Miradrain G100N or equivalent can be used.
The subdrain should be connected to solid pipe outlets, with a maximum outlet spacing
of 100 feet. A drainage collection vault and sump pump will be necessary to collect and
discharge water seepage from the basement level subdrain systems. Waterproofing
membranes should be added to the subterranean wall levels for moisture sensitive
areas to mitigate moisture migration through the walls. Basement levels walls should be
backfilled with granular non-expansive fill soils.

Walls subjected to surcharge loads located within a distance equal to the height of the
wall should be designed for an additional uniform lateral pressure equal to 30% or 45%
of the anticipated surcharge load for unrestrained or restrained walls, respectively.
These values are applicable for backfill placed between the wall stem and an imaginary
plane rising 45 degrees from below the edge (heel) of the wall footings.

Retaining walls taller than 6 feet should be designed to resist additional earth pressure
caused by seismic ground shaking based on Section 1615A.1.6 of CBC 2010. A
seismic earth pressure of 16H (psf), based on an inverted triangular distribution, can be
used for design of wall.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 14

7.6       Soil Corrosivity Evaluation

Based on our review of soil corrosivity test results (see Appendix B), the pH and
chloride content are not in the corrosive range to ferrous metal. However, the minimum
saturated resistivity of soil is in the corrosive range to ferrous metal. Protections of
underground metal pipe should be considered. The soluble sulfate concentration is not
in the corrosive range to concrete. Type I or II Portland cement can be used for
concrete design.

A corrosion engineer may be consulted for appropriate mitigation procedures and
construction design, if needed. General considerations for corrosion mitigation
measures may include the following:
   • Steel and wire concrete reinforcement should have at least three inches of
      concrete cover where cast against soil, unformed.
      •   Below-grade ferrous metals should be given a high-quality protective coating,
          such as 18-mil plastic tape, extruded polyethylene, coal-tar enamel, or Portland
          cement mortar.
      •   Below-grade metals should be electrically insulated (isolated) from above-grade
          metals by means of dielectric fittings in ferrous utilities and/or exposed metal
          structures breaking grade.

7.7       Site Drainage

Adequate positive drainage should be provided away from the structure foundations to
prevent ponding and to reduce percolation of water into the foundation soils. We
recommend that any landscape areas immediately adjacent to the foundation shall be
designed sloped away from the foundation with a minimum 2 percent slope gradient for
at least 10 feet measured perpendicular to the face of the foundation. Impervious
surfaces within 10 feet of the structure foundation shall be sloped a minimum of 1
percent away from the structure.

7.8       Percolation Rates for Stormwater Infiltration System

Percolation testing was performed utilizing exploratory Borings BH-6 and BH-8 on
August 2, 2013. Tests were performed using the falling head test method in accordance
with Los Angeles County “Low Impact Development Best Management Practice
Guideline for Design, Investigation, and Reporting”. The results of the percolation tests
are tabulated below and in Appendix C, Percolation Testing Data.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 15

Table No. 6, Percolation Test Results
                                                    Depth of
                                                                     Average              Lowest
               Depth of                                Soil
 Boring                    Predominant Soil Types                Percolation Rate     Percolation Rate
                Boring                              Column
  No.                             (USCS)                          (inches/hour)        (inches/hour)
                 (feet)                              Tested
                                                      (feet)
  BH-6           10          Clayey Sand (SC)       5 – 10             0.27                0.23
  BH-8           10          Clayey Sand (SC)       0 – 10             0.20                0.20


The percolation rates were determined in general accordance with Los Angeles County
“Low Impact Development Best Management Practice Guideline for Design,
Investigation, and Reporting”. In accordance with County of Los Angeles requirements,
the minimum percolation rate for design of infiltration system for storm water
management is 0.5 inch per hour. Based on the percolation rate, it is our opinion that
the site is not suitable for infiltration drainage system.

7.9        Flexible Pavement Recommendations

The flexible pavement structural section design recommendations were performed in
accordance with the method contained in the CALTRANS Highway Design Manual,
Chapter 630 without the factor of safety. No specific traffic study was performed to
determine the Traffic Index (TI) for the proposed project. The recommended flexible
pavement structural sections for various TI conditions are presented in the following table:

Table No. 7, Flexible Pavement Structural Sections
                                                                               FULL AC STRUCTURAL
                                PAVEMENT STRUCTURAL SECTIONS
 Design                                                                              SECTION
Subgrade       Design TI
 R-value                         AC (inches)             AB (inches)                 AC (inches)


                    4                3.0                       4.0                        4.0
                    5                4.0                       6.0                        6.0
      14            6                5.0                       7.0                        7.5
                    7                6.0                       9.0                        9.0

Actual traffic index and traffic load should be determined by either Civil Engineer or
Traffic Engineer. The above pavement sections are recommended as a guideline for
basic usage of the indicated TI values. It is our understanding the pavement must be
designed to carry the weight of a 70,000 lb fire truck. In such a case, the minimum
pavement structural section should be 5 inch asphalt concrete (AC) over 7 inches
aggregate base (AB).




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 16

Base material shall conform to requirements for a Class 2 Crushed Aggregate Base (CAB)
or equivalent (such as crushed miscellaneous base - CMB) and should be placed in
accordance with the requirements of the Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction (SSPWC, Latest Edition). Asphaltic materials should conform to Section
203-1, "Paving Asphalt," and should be placed in accordance with Section 302-5,
"Asphalt Concrete Pavement," of the SSPWC.

7.10   Rigid Pavement Recommendations

The rigid pavement structural section design recommendations were performed in
accordance with “Portland Cement Concrete Pavement (PCCP) Design Nomograph for
Cities and Counties Roads.” presented by the Portland Cement Association’s (PCA’s)
Southwest Region Publication P-14, “Portland Cement Concrete Pavement (PCCP) for
Light, Medium, and Heavy Traffic.” The recommended rigid pavement structural
sections for various TI conditions are presented in the following table:

Table No. 8, Rigid Pavement Structural Sections
     Design R-Value         Design Traffic Index (TI)                  PCCP Pavement Section
                                                                             (inches)
                                                  4                             7.00
              14                                  5                             7.25
                                                  6                             7.50
                                                  7                             7.75

The above pavement section is based on a minimum 28-day Modulus of Rupture (M-R)
of 550 psi and a compressive strength of 3,750 psi. The third point method of testing
beams should be used to evaluate modulus of rupture. The concrete mix design should
contain a minimum cement content of 5.5 sacks per cubic yard. Recommended
maximum and minimum values of slump for pavement concrete are three inches to one
inch, respectively.

Transverse contraction joints should not be spaced more than 15 feet and should be cut
to a depth of ¼ the thickness of the slab. Longitudinal joints should not be spaced more
than 12 feet apart. A longitudinal joint is not necessary in the pavement adjacent to the
curb and gutter section.

Prior to placement of concrete, at least the upper 12 inches of subgrade soils below
rigid pavement sections should be compacted to at least 95 percent relative compaction
as defined by the ASTM D 1557 standard test method.

Positive drainage should be provided away from all pavement areas to prevent seepage
of surface and/or subsurface water into pavement base and/or subgrade.



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 17

8.0    SITE GRADING AND EARTHWORK RECOMMENDATIONS

8.1    General

Based on our field exploration at the site, the undocumented fills and disturbed soils
underneath the planned buildings and new parking lot should be removed and
recompacted to provide a relatively uniform soil condition and sufficient lateral
resistance for the footings and slab. To help reduce the potential for differential
settlement, variations in the soil type, degree of compaction, and thickness of the
compacted fill placed underneath slab and/or footings should be kept uniform. Site
grading recommendations provided in this report are based on our experience with
similar projects in the area and our site-specific geotechnical evaluation.

The existing soils removed during over-excavation can be placed as compacted fill in
structural areas after proper processing (free of vegetation, shrubs, roots and debris).
Earthwork should be performed with suitable equipment and techniques to selectively
screen/remove debris from soils placed as engineered fill. General earthwork
specifications are presented in Appendix E, Earthwork Specifications. Following
remedial grading, compacted fill soils are anticipated to have similar engineering
characteristics with the underlying dense alluvial soils.

8.2    Over-Excavation/Removal

Due to the undocumented fills encountered underneath the planned buildings, we
recommend over-excavation be to the depth of fill or at least 5 feet below existing
grade, whichever is deeper. Deeper removals will be needed if firm and natural soil
conditions are not exposed on the excavation bottoms. The lateral limits of the over-
excavation should extend at least 5 feet beyond the footing and slab areas, where
space is available.

For pavement and concrete flatwork, we recommend over-excavation be at least 2 feet
below finished subgrade and 2 feet laterally beyond the footprints, where space is
available.

The exposed bottom of the over-excavation area should be scarified at least 6 inches,
moisture conditioned as needed to near-optimum moisture content, and compacted to
90 percent relative compaction. Over-excavation should not undermine adjacent off-site
improvements. Remedial grading should not extend within a projected 1:1 (horizontal to
vertical) plane projected down from the outer edge of adjacent off-site improvements.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 18

If loose, yielding soil conditions are encountered at the excavation bottom, the following
options can be considered:
     a.     Over-excavate until reach firm bottom.
     b.     Scarify or over-excavate additional 18 inches deep, and then place at least
            18-inch-thick compacted base material (CAB or equivalent) to bridge the soft
            bottom. Base should be compacted to 90% relative compaction.
     c.     Over-excavate additional 18 inches deep, and then place a layer of geofabric
            (i.e. Marifi HP570, X600 or equivalent), place 18-inch-thick compacted base
            material (CAB or equivalent) to bridge the soft bottom. Base should be
            compacted to 90% relative compaction. An additional layer of geofabric may
            be needed on top of base depending on the actual site conditions.

8.3    Engineered Fill

All engineered fill should be placed on competent, scarified and compacted bottom as
evaluated by the geotechnical engineer and in accordance with the recommendations
presented in this section. Excavated site soils, free of deleterious materials and rock
particles larger than three (3) inches in the largest dimension, should be suitable for
placement as compacted fill. Any proposed import fill should be evaluated and approved
by Converse prior to import to the site. Import fill material should have an expansion index
less than 20.

Due to expansive soils encountered at the site, we recommend at least 12 inches of
imported non-expansive sandy soil or crushed aggregate base (CAB) be placed and
compacted underneath the floor slabs of buildings. For other non-building structures,
mitigation recommendations are presented in Section 8.5 – Expansive Soil.

Prior to compaction, fill materials should be thoroughly mixed and moisture conditioned
within two (2) percent above the optimum moisture content. Fill soils shall be evenly
spread in maximum 8-inch lifts, watered or dried as necessary, mixed and compacted to
at least the density specified below. The fill shall be placed and compacted on a
horizontal plane, unless otherwise approved by the Geotechnical Engineer. All fill, if not
specified otherwise elsewhere in this report, should be compacted to at least 90 percent
of the laboratory dry density in accordance with the ASTM Standard D1557 test method.
The upper 12 inches of subgrade below pavement areas should be compacted to 95
percent relative compaction.

8.4    Excavatability

Based on our field exploration, the earth materials at the site may be excavated with
conventional heavy-duty earth moving and trenching equipment. The onsite materials
may contain demolition debris and gravel and/or cobbles. Earthwork should be



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 19

performed with suitable equipment and methods for removal of debris from the
engineered fill.

8.5       Expansive Soil

Based on soil classifications and laboratory test results, the recommendations
contained in this report are based upon anticipated medium expansion soil conditions.
The soil materials with Expansion Index higher than 20 should be mitigated. There are
several mitigation measures that can be utilized to improve expansive soils at the site.
Some mitigation measures include:

      •   Pre-saturation of on-site compacted subgrade soils to at approximate three (3)
          percent above optimum moisture content.

      •   Removing about 1 foot of the underlying soils, and replacing with imported sandy
          material compacted fill (Expansion Index less than 20).

      •   Reinforce footing and place thicker concrete slab with moisture barrier.

It is very important to keep the site soils moisture content around or under the edge of
foundation, concrete slab, and asphalt concrete pavement at approximately the same
moisture content before, during and after construction. This will reduce greatly the
expansion potential of the site soils.

8.6       Shrinkage and Subsidence

Soil shrinkage and/or bulking as a result of remedial grading depends on several factors
including the depth of over-excavation, and the grading method and equipment utilized,
and average relative compaction. For preliminary estimation, bulking and shrinkage
factors for various units of earth material at the site may be taken as presented below:

      •   The approximate shrinkage factor for the undocumented fill soils is estimated to
          range from ten (10) to fifteen (15) percent.
      •   The approximate shrinkage factor for the native alluvial soils is estimated to
          range from five (5) to ten (10) percent.
      •   For estimation purposes, ground subsidence may be taken as 0.1 feet as a result
          of remedial grading.

Although these values are only approximate, they represent our best estimates of the
factors to be used to calculate lost volume that may occur during grading. If more accurate
shrinkage and subsidence factors are needed, it is recommended that field-testing using
the actual equipment and grading techniques be conducted.


   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                          Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                               Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                   1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                       Los Angeles, California
                                                                                           February 21, 2014
                                                                                                      Page 20



9.0    CONSTRUCTION CONSIDERATIONS

9.1    Temporary Excavations

Based on the materials encountered in the exploratory borings, sloped temporary
excavations may be constructed according to the slope ratios presented in the following
table:

Table No. 9, Slope Ratios for Temporary Excavation
              Maximum Depth of Cut                                    Maximum Slope Ratio*
                     (feet)                                            (horizontal: vertical)
                     0–4                                                      vertical
                        4–8                                                      1:1
                         >8                                                     1.5:1
*Slope ratio assumed to be uniform from top to toe of slope.

Any loose utility trench backfill or other fill encountered in excavations will be less stable
than the native soils. Temporary cuts encountering loose fill or loose dry sand should be
constructed at a flatter gradient than presented in the table above. Surfaces exposed in
slope excavations should be kept moist but not saturated to minimize raveling and
sloughing during construction. Adequate provisions should be made to protect the slopes
from erosion during periods of rainfall. Surcharge loads, including construction, should not
be placed within five (5) feet of the unsupported excavation edge.

All applicable requirements of the California Construction and General Industry Safety
Orders, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1987 and current amendments, and
the Construction Safety Act should be met. The soils exposed in cuts should be
observed during excavation by the project's geotechnical consultant. If potentially
unstable soil conditions are encountered, modifications of slope ratios for temporary
cuts may be required.

9.2    Shoring Design

Temporary shoring is required for support of construction excavations. A soldier-pile
shoring system may be used to maintain temporary support of vertical walled
excavations. Shoring design must consider the support of adjacent underground utilities
and/or structures, and should consider the effects of shoring deflection on supported
improvements.

Temporary cantilever shoring should be designed to resist a lateral earth pressure
equivalent to a fluid density of 35 pounds-per-cubic-foot (pcf). This equivalent fluid



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 21

pressure is valid only for shoring retaining level ground. Surcharge pressures should be
added to the above earth pressures for surcharges within a distance from the top of the
shoring less than or equal to the shoring height. A surcharge coefficient of 30 percent
of any uniform vertical surcharge should be added as a horizontal shoring pressure for
cantilever shoring.

Lateral resistance for soldier piles may be assumed to be provided by passive pressure
below the bottom of excavations. The soldier piles should be designed using an
allowable passive resistance in terms of equivalent fluid pressure of 250 pcf to a
maximum of 4,000 psf. If the pile spacing is greater than 3 times pile diameter, the
passive resistance can be doubled. Shoring piles may be designed per 2013 CBC
Section 1807A.3.2. The horizontal deflection at top of shoring wall should be limited to
less than 0.5 inch.

Caving soils should be anticipated between the piles. To limit local sloughing, caving
soils in fill areas can be supported by continuous lagging or guniting. The need for
lagging between soldier piles in bedrock should be determined by the Geotechnical
Engineer during construction based upon the condition of the bedrock exposed and the
mount (if any) of seepage encountered. All lumber to be left in the ground should be
treated in accordance with Section 204-2 of the "Standard Specifications for Public
Works Construction" (Green Book).

It is recommended that Converse review plans and specifications for proposed shoring
and that a Converse representative observe the installation of shoring. A licensed
surveyor should be retained to establish monuments on shoring and the surrounding
ground prior to excavation. Such monuments should be monitored for horizontal and
vertical movement during construction. Results of the monitoring program should be
provided immediately to the project Structural (shoring) Engineer and Converse for
review and evaluation. Adjacent buildings should be photo-documented prior to
construction.

9.3    Geotechnical Services During Construction

This report has been prepared to aid in the foundation plans and specifications, and to
assist the architect, civil and structural engineers in the design of the proposed structures

It is recommended that this office be provided an opportunity to review final design
drawings and specifications to verify that the recommendations of this report have been
properly implemented.

Recommendations presented herein are based upon the assumption that adequate
earthwork monitoring will be provided by Converse. Footing excavations should be
observed by Converse prior to placement of steel and concrete so that footings are



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 22

founded on satisfactory materials and excavations are free of loose and disturbed
materials. Trench backfill should be placed and compacted with observation and field
density testing provided by this office.

During construction, the geotechnical engineer and/or their authorized representatives
should be present at the site to provide a source of advice to the client regarding the
geotechnical aspects of the project and to observe and test the earthwork performed.
Their presence should not be construed as an acceptance of responsibility for the
performance of the completed work, since it is the sole responsibility of the contractor
performing the work to ensure that it complies with all applicable plans, specifications,
ordinances, etc.

This firm does not practice or consult in the field of safety engineering. We do not direct
the contractor’s operations, and cannot be responsible for other than our own personnel
on the site; therefore, the safety of others is the responsibility of the contractor. The
contractor should notify the owner if he considers any recommended actions presented
herein to be unsafe.

10.0   CLOSURE

The findings and recommendations of this report were prepared in accordance with
generally accepted professional engineering and engineering geologic principles and
practice. We make no other warranty, either expressed or implied. Our conclusions
and recommendations are based on the results of the field and laboratory studies,
combined with an interpolation and extrapolation of soil conditions between and beyond
boring locations. If conditions encountered during construction appear to be different
from those shown by the borings, this office should be notified.

Design recommendations given in this report are based on the assumption that the
earthwork and site grading recommendations contained in this report are implemented.
Additional consultation may be prudent to interpret Converse's findings for contractors, or
to possibly refine these recommendations based upon the review of the final site grading
and actual site conditions encountered during construction. If the scope of the project
changes, if project completion is to be delayed, or if the report is to be used for another
purpose, this office should be consulted.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 23

11.0   REFERENCES

CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION, 2010, California Building Code
     (CBC), California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 2, Volumes 1 and 2, effective
     January 2011.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION, DIVISION OF MINES AND
     GEOLOGY, 1998, Seismic Hazard Zone Report for the Hollywood 7.5-Minute
     Quadrangles, Los Angeles County, SHZR 026, latest text update January 13,
     2006.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION, DIVISION OF MINES AND
     GEOLOGY, 1994, Fault-Rupture Hazard Zones in California, Alquist-Priolo
     Earthquake Fault Zoning Act with Index to Earthquake Fault Zones Maps: Special
     Publication 42, by Hart, E.W., & Bryant, W.A., dated 1994, revised 1997 with
     Supplements 1 and 2 added in 1999, and Supplement 3 added in 2003.

CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANPORTATION, 2012, Corrosion Guidelines,
     Version 2.0, dated November 2012.

CALIFORNIA GEOLOGIC SURVEY, 2005, Engineering Geology and Seismology for
     Public Schools and Hospitals in California to accompany the California
     Geological Survey Note 48 Checklist, August 9, 2005, 321 pages.

CALIFORNIA GEOLOGIC SURVEY, Guidelines for Evaluating and Mitigating Seismic
     Hazards in California, Special Publication 117A, 2008.

CALIFORNIA GEOLOGIC SURVEY – Note 48, Checklist for the Review of Engineering
     Geology and Seismology Reports for California Public Schools, Hospitals, and
     Essential Services Structures.

CAO, T., BRYANT, W.A., ROWSHANDEL, B., BRANUM, D., and WILLS, C.J., 2003,
     The Revised 2002 California Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Maps, June 2003:
     California Geological Survey web page,
     http://www.consrv.ca.gov/cgs/rghm/psha/fault_parameters/pdf/2002_CA_Hazard
     Maps.pdf> (November 18, 2005).

CITY OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY (2011), Information Builetin/ Public- Building Code –
     Guidelines for Strom Water Infiltration, P/BC 2011-118, dated 1/1/2011.

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, Alexandria,
    VA, Soil Mechanics, Design Manual 7.01 (NAVFAC DM-7.01), 1982.



   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page 24

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, Alexandria,
    VA, Foundations and Earth Buildings, Design Manual 7.02 (NAVFAC DM-7.02),
    1986.

LOS ANGELES COUNTY (2011), Administrative Manual - Low Impact Development
    Best Management Practice Guideline for Design, Investigation, and Reporting,
    dated May 19, 2011.

NATIONAL CENTER FOR EARTHQUAKE ENGINEERING RESEARCH (NCEER),
     Proceedings of the NCEER Workshop on Evaluation of Liquefaction Resistance
     of Soils, Edited by T. L. Youd and I. M. Idriss, Technical Report NCEER-97-0022,
     1997.

NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL TITLE SEARCH, LLC. (2011),www.HistoricAerials.com.

PORTLAND CEMENT ASSOCIATION, Southwest Region Publication P-14, Portland
    Cement Concrete Pavement Design Nomograph for City and County Roads.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EARTHQUAKE CENTER, Recommended Procedures for
    Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117 Guidelines for Analyzing and
    Mitigating Liquefaction in California, March 1999.

STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION, 2010, Public
    Works Standards, Inc.

TOKIMATSU, K. AND SEED, H. B., 1987; Evaluation of Settlement in Sands Due to
     Earthquake Shaking, ASCE Journal of Geotechnical Engineering, Vol. 118.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, 2011, Seismic Hazards Curves, Response
     Parameters and Design Parameters, Version 5.1, Computer Program by the
     United States Geological Survey dated February 10, 2011.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
   APPENDIX A

FIELD EXPLORATION
                                                                    Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                         Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                             1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                 Los Angeles, California
                                                                                     February 21, 2014
                                                                                               Page A-1

                                          APPENDIX A

                                     FIELD EXPLORATION

Field exploration included a site reconnaissance and subsurface exploration program.
During the site reconnaissance, the surface conditions were noted, and the approximate
locations of the boring were determined. The exploratory borings were approximately
located using existing boundary and other features as a guide and should be considered
accurate only to the degree implied by the method used. The various field study
methods performed are discussed below.

Exploratory Borings

Ten (10) exploratory borings (BH-1 through BH-10) were drilled within the project site on
July 30 and August 2, 2013. The borings were advanced using a truck mounted 8-inch
diameter hollow stem auger drill rig to depths ranging from 11.5 to 51.5 feet below the
existing ground surface (bgs). Every boring was visually logged by a Converse engineer
and sampled at regular intervals and at changes in subsurface soils. The Boring locations
are shown on Drawing No. 2, Site Plan and Boring Locations. Detailed descriptions of the
field exploration and sampling program are presented in Appendix A, Field Exploration.

California Modified Sampler (Ring samples), Standard Penetration Test samples, and bulk
soil samples were obtained for laboratory testing. Standard Penetration Tests (SPTs) were
performed in selected borings at selected intervals using a standard (1.4 inches inside
diameter and 2.0 inches outside diameter) split-barrel sampler. The bore holes were
backfilled and compacted with soil cuttings by reverse spinning of the auger following the
completion of drilling and patched with asphalt.

Borings BH-6 and BH-8 were utilized for percolation tests prior to backfill. Percolation test
procedures and test results are further discussed in Appendix C, Percolation Testing.

It should be noted that the exact depths at which material changes occur cannot always
be established accurately. Changes in material conditions that occur between driven
samples are indicated in the logs at the top of the next drive sample. A key to soil
symbols and terms is presented as Drawing No. A-1, Soil Classification Chart. The log
of the exploratory boring is presented in Drawing Nos. A-2 through A-11, Log of
Borings.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR.docx
        APPENDIX B

LABORATORY TESTING PROGRAM
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page B-1



                                           APPENDIX B

                            LABORATORY TESTING PROGRAM

Tests were conducted in our laboratory on representative soil samples for the purpose of
classification and evaluation of their relevant physical characteristics and engineering
properties. The amount and selection of tests were based on the geotechnical
requirements of the project. Test results are presented herein and on the Logs of Borings
in Appendix A, Field Exploration. The following is a summary of the laboratory tests
conducted for this project.
Moisture Content and Dry Density
Results of moisture content and dry density tests, performed on relatively undisturbed
ring samples were used to aid in the classification of the soils and to provide
quantitative measure of the in situ dry density. Data obtained from this test provides
qualitative information on strength and compressibility characteristics of site soils. For
test results, see the Logs of Borings in Appendix A, Field Exploration.

Grain-Size Analysis
To assist in classification of soils, mechanical grain-size analyses were performed on
three (3) selected samples. Testing was performed in general accordance with the
ASTM Standard D422 test method. Grain-size curve is shown in Drawing No. B-1,
Grain Size Distribution Results.

Percent Finer than the No. 200 Sieve
The percent finer than sieve No. 200 test was performed on six (6) soil samples to aid in
the classification of the on-site soils and to estimate other engineering parameters.
Testing was performed in general accordance with the ASTM Standard D1140 test
method. The test results are presented in the following table:

Table No. B-1, Percent Passing Sieve # 200 Results
 Boring       Depth                                                                Percent Passing
                                          Soil Classification
   No.        (feet)                                                                Sieve No. 200
  BH-3          15                         Sandy Clay (CL)                              65.0
  BH-4          15                         Sandy Clay (CL)                                89.0
  BH-7          10                        Clayey Sand (SC)                                50.0
  BH-7          15                          Sandy Silt (ML)                               76.2
  BH-10         10                          Sandy Silt (ML)                               63.0
  BH-10         25                         Sandy Clay (CL)                                56.5




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                      Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                           Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                               1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                   Los Angeles, California
                                                                                       February 21, 2014
                                                                                                 Page B-2



Atterberg Limits
Atterberg limits tests were performed on two (2) samples to assist the classification of
the soils according to ASTM Standard D4318 test method. The test results are
presented in the following table and are presented on Drawing No. B-2, Atterberg Limits
Results.

Table No. B-2, Atterberg Limit Test Results
                      Depth                                 Liquid          Plastic           Plastic
    Boring No.                    Soil Classification
                      (feet)                               Limit (%)       Limit (%)        Index (%)
       BH-4             20            Sandy Clay              29               12              17

       BH-4             30            Sandy Clay              29               15              14


Maximum Density Test
Three (3) representative bulk samples were tested in the laboratory to determine the
maximum dry density and optimum moisture content. The tests were conducted in
accordance with the ASTM Standard D1557 laboratory procedure. The test results are
presented in Drawing No. B-3, Moisture-Density Relationship Results.

Direct Shear
Direct shear test was performed on two (2) relatively undisturbed in-situ samples. For
this test, three brass sampler rings were placed, one at a time, directly into the test
apparatus and subjected to a range of normal loads appropriate for the anticipated
conditions. The sample was then sheared at a constant strain rate of 0.01 inch/minute.
Shear deformation was recorded until a maximum of about 0.25-inch shear
displacement was achieved. Ultimate strength was selected from the shear-stress
deformation data and plotted to determine the shear strength parameters. For test data,
including sample density and moisture content, see Drawing Nos. B-4a through 4b,
Direct Shear Test Results, and in the following table:

Table No. B-3, Direct Shear Test Results
                                                                    Ultimate Strength Parameters
                    Depth
 Boring No.                          Soil Classification
                    (feet)                                         Friction Angle         Cohesion
                                                                     (degrees)              (psf)
    BH-4             10 R             Clayey Sand (SC)                    23                 400

    BH-7             10 R             Clayey Sand (SC)                    23                 1000




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page B-3

Consolidation
Consolidation tests were performed on two (2) relatively undisturbed in-situ samples.
Data obtained from this test procedure was used to evaluate the settlement characteristics
of the foundation soils under load. Preparation for this test involved trimming the sample
and placing the one-inch high brass ring into the test apparatus, which contained porous
stones, both top and bottom, to accommodate drainage during testing. Normal axial loads
were applied to one end of the sample through the porous stones, and the resulting
deflections were recorded at various time periods. The load was increased after the
sample reached a reasonable state equilibrium. Normal loads were applied at a constant
load-increment ratio, successive loads being generally twice the preceding load. The
sample was tested at field and submerged conditions. The test results, including sample
density and moisture content, are presented in Drawing No. B-5a and 5b, Consolidation
Test Results.

Expansion Index
Two (2) representative bulk samples were tested to evaluate the expansion potential of
material encountered at the site. The test results are presented in the following table:

Table No. B-4, Expansion Index Test Results
   Sample         Depth                                            Expansion           Expansion
                                     Soil Description
  Location         (ft)                                              Index              Potential

    BH-4          0–5                Clayey Sand (SC)                  56                Medium

    BH-7          0–5                Clayey Sand (SC)                  51                Medium


R-value
Two (2) representative bulk soil samples were tested for resistance value (R-value) in
accordance with ASTM D2844 Standard. This test is designed to provide a relative
measure of soil strength for use in pavement design. The test results are shown in the
following table:

Table No. B-5, R-value Test Result
                                                                                              Measured
     Boring No.                    Depth, ft                    Soil Classification
                                                                                               R-value
         BH-1                        0–5                         Clayey Sand (SC)                   14
         BH-3                        0–5                         Clayey Sand (SC)                   15




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page B-4

Soil Corrosivity
Two (2) representative soil samples were tested to evaluate minimum electrical
resistivity, pH, and chemical content, including soluble sulfate and chloride
concentrations. The purpose of these tests is to determine the corrosion potential of
site soils when placed in contact with common construction materials. These tests were
performed by Environmental Geotechnology Laboratory, Inc. (EGL), located in Arcadia,
California. The test results received from EGL are included in the following table:

Table No. B-6, Corrosivity Test Results
                                                      Soluble           Soluble           Saturated
                   Sample
                                       pH            Chlorides          Sulfate           Resistivity
  Boring No.        Depth
                                 (Caltrans 643)    (Caltrans 422)    (Caltrans 417)     (Caltrans 643)
                    (feet)
                                                        ppm          (% by weight)         Ohm-cm
    BH-9             0–5              7.98               85               0.014             1,300



Sample Storage
Soil samples presently stored in our laboratory will be discarded 30 days after the date of
this report, unless this office receives a specific request to retain the samples for a longer
period.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
    APPENDIX C

PERCOLATION TESTING
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page C-1



                                           APPENDIX C

                                   PERCOLATION TESTING

Percolation testing was performed utilizing two (2) exploratory borings (BH-6 and BH-8)
on August 2, 2013. The tests were performed using the falling head test method to
evaluate soil percolation rates of on-site soils. The bored hole was cased using a two-
inch diameter perforated PVC casing surrounded with filter gravel pack. Water was
added to the bore hole until the water level was at the ground surface and allowed to
pre-soak for at least 2 hours. After presoak, we started 30-minute interval percolation
test by adding water to the borehole until the water level was at ground surface. The
water level was measured for 30 minutes to the nearest 1/10-foot. At least four (4) sets
of 30-minute interval percolation tests were performed at each location. The results of
the percolation tests are tabulated below and in Appendix C, Percolation Testing Data.

Table No. C-1, Percolation Test Results
                                                                                 Average Percolation
                            Depth of Boring*       Predominant Soil Types
      Boring No.                                                                        Rate
                                 (feet)                   (USCS)
                                                                                    (inches/hour)

        BH-6                      10.0                Clayey Sand (SC)                   0.27

        BH-8                      10.0                Clayey Sand (SC)                   0.20


The project Civil Engineer should review the raw data of percolation test attached with
this memorandum to determine specific soil layers and percolation rates for design of
the proposed infiltration system.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
              APPENDIX D

LIQUEFACTION/SEISMIC SETTLEMENT ANALYSIS
                                                                       Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                            Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                                1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                    Los Angeles, California
                                                                                        February 21, 2014
                                                                                                  Page D-1

                                           APPENDIX D

                   LIQUEFACTION/SEISMIC SETTLEMENT ANALYSIS

Liquefaction is defined as the phenomenon where a soil mass exhibits a substantial
reduction in its shear strength. This strength reduction is due to the development of excess
pore pressure in a soil mass caused by earthquake induced ground motions. Saturated
soils behave temporarily as a viscous fluid (liquefaction) and, consequently, lose their
capacity to support the structures founded on them. The potential for liquefaction
decreases with increasing clay and gravel content, but increases as the ground
acceleration and duration of shaking increase. Liquefaction potential has been found to
be the greatest where the groundwater level and loose sands occur within 50 feet of the
ground surface.

Our liquefaction analyses are based on the Special Publication 117A: Guidelines for
Evaluating and Mitigating Seismic Hazards in California (9/2008), Recommended
Procedures for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing
and Mitigating Liquefaction Hazards in California (3/1999), and 2010 California Building
Code.

The subsurface data obtained from exploratory boring BH-7 was used to evaluate the
liquefaction/seismic settlement potential of the area. The SPT blow counts at upper 5 feet
of soils are assumed to be 15 after completion of compaction. The liquefaction potential
and seismic settlement analyses were performed utilizing SPT data obtained from the
selected boring for the upper 50 feet of soils, using LiquefyPro, Version 5.8d, 2009, by
Civil Tech Software. The following seismic parameters are used for liquefaction
potential analyses.

Table No. D-1, Seismic Parameters Used in Liquefaction Analysis
          Groundwater Depth*              Earthquake Magnitude**         Peak Ground Acceleration***
                (feet)                             Mw                               (g)
                   50                                6.71                            0.478
* Based on Seismic Hazard Zone Report for the Hollywood 7.5-Minute Quadrangle
** Based on USGS 2008 NSHMP PSHA Interactive Deaggregation web site.
** Based on SDS/2.5 per CBC 2010

The results of our liquefaction analyses indicate the project site is not susceptible to
liquefaction as presented in the attached calculations. The estimated seismic settlement
is approximately 0.3 inches with differential settlement of 0.2 inch.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
       APPENDIX E

EARTHWORK SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page E-1

                                           APPENDIX E

                               EARTHWORK SPECIFICATIONS

E1.1 Scope of Work

The work includes all labor, supplies and construction equipment required to construct
the building pads in a good, workmanlike manner, as shown on the drawings and herein
specified. The major items of work covered in this section include the following:
   ♦ Site Inspection
   ♦ Authority of Geotechnical Engineer
   ♦ Site Clearing
   ♦ Excavations
   ♦ Preparation of Fill Areas
   ♦ Placement and Compaction of Fill
   ♦ Observation and Testing

E1.2 Site Inspection

  1. The Contractor shall carefully examine the site and make all inspections
     necessary, in order to determine the full extent of the work required to make the
     completed work conform to the drawings and specifications. The Contractor
     shall satisfy himself as to the nature and location of the work, ground surface and
     the characteristics of equipment and facilities needed prior to and during
     prosecution of the work. The Contractor shall satisfy himself as to the character,
     quality, and quantity of surface and subsurface materials or obstacles to be
     encountered. Any inaccuracies or discrepancies between the actual field
     conditions and the drawings, or between the drawings and specifications must be
     brought to the Owner's attention in order to clarify the exact nature of the work to
     be performed.

  2. This Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report by Converse Consultants may be
     used as a reference to the surface and subsurface conditions on this project. The
     information presented in this report is intended for use in design and is subject to
     confirmation of the conditions encountered during construction. The exploration
     logs and related information depict subsurface conditions only at the particular
     time and location designated on the boring logs. Subsurface conditions at other
     locations may differ from conditions encountered at the exploration locations. In
     addition, the passage of time may result in a change in subsurface conditions at
     the exploration locations. Any review of this information shall not relieve the


   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page E-2

       Contractor from performing such independent investigation and evaluation to
       satisfy himself as to the nature of the surface and subsurface conditions to be
       encountered and the procedures to be used in performing his work.
E1.3 Authority of the Geotechnical Engineer

     1. The Geotechnical Engineer will observe the placement of compacted fill and will
        take sufficient tests to evaluate the uniformity and degree of compaction of filled
        ground.
     2. As the Owner's representative, the Geotechnical Engineer will (a) have the
        authority to cause the removal and replacement of loose, soft, disturbed and
        other unsatisfactory soils and uncontrolled fill; (b) have the authority to approve
        the preparation of native ground to receive fill material; and (c) have the
        authority to approve or reject soils proposed for use in building areas.
     3. The Civil Engineer and/or Owner will decide all questions regarding (a) the
        interpretation of the drawings and specifications, (b) the acceptable fulfillment of
        the contract on the part of the Contractor and (c) the matters of compensation.

E1.4 Site Clearing

  1. Clearing and grubbing shall consist of the removal from building areas to be
     graded of all existing structures, pavement, utilities, and vegetation.
  2. Organic and inorganic materials resulting from the clearing and grubbing
     operations shall be hauled away from the areas to be graded.

E1.5 Excavations
  1. Based on observations made during our field explorations, the site soils can be
     excavated with conventional earthwork equipment.

E1.6 Preparation of Fill Areas

  1. All organic material, organic soils, debris, undocumented fill soils, and expansive
     native soils within the foundation zone should be removed from the proposed
     building areas.
  2. The depths and extents of over-excavations should be performed per the
     recommendations presented in this report. Deeper removal will be needed if firm
     soils are not exposed on the excavation bottom. All loose, soft or disturbed earth
     materials should be removed from the bottom of excavations before placing
     structural fill. The actual depth of removal should be determined based on
     observations made during grading.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page E-3

  3. The subgrade in all areas to receive fill shall be scarified to a minimum depth of
     six (6) inches, the soil moisture adjusted between optimum and three (3) percent
     above optimum for fine-grained soils and within two (2) percent of optimum
     moisture content for granular soils, and then compacted to at least 90 percent of
     the laboratory maximum dry density as determined by ASTM Standard D1557
     test method. Scarification may be terminated on moderately hard to hard,
     cemented earth materials with the approval of the Geotechnical Engineer.
  4. Approved non-expansive soil placed as compacted fill may be placed on native
     soils that have been properly scarified and recompacted as discussed above.
  5. All areas to receive compacted fill will be observed and approved by the
     Geotechnical Engineer before the placement of fill.

E1.7 Placement and Compaction of Fill
  1. Compacted fill placed for the support of footings, slabs-on-grade, exterior
     concrete flatwork, and driveways will be considered structural fill. Structural fill
     may consist of approved on-site soils or imported fill that meets the criteria
     indicated below.
  2. Fill consisting of selected imported soils approved by the Geotechnical Engineer
     shall be placed in layers on approved earth materials. Soils used as compacted
     structural fill shall have the following characteristics:
       a.      All fill soil particles shall not exceed three (3) inches in nominal size, and
               shall be free of organic matter and miscellaneous inorganic debris and
               inert rubble.
       b.      Imported fill materials shall have an Expansion Index (EI) less than 20. All
               imported fill should be compacted to at least 90 percent of the laboratory
               maximum dry density (ASTM Standard D1557) at about three (3) percent
               above optimum moisture for fine grained soils, and within two (2) percent
               of optimum for granular soils.
  3. Fill soils shall be evenly spread in maximum 8-inch lifts, watered or dried as
     necessary, mixed and compacted to at least the density specified below. The fill
     shall be placed and compacted on a horizontal plane, unless otherwise approved
     by the Geotechnical Engineer.
  4. All fill placed at the site shall be compacted to at least 90 percent of the
     laboratory maximum dry density as determined by ASTM Standard D1557 test
     method. The on-site soils shall be moisture conditioned within two (2) percent
     above the optimum moisture content. At least the upper 12 inches of subgrade
     soils underneath the concrete apron, pavement and parking areas should be
     compacted to a minimum of 95 percent relative compaction.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page E-4

  5. Fill exceeding five (5) feet in height shall not be placed on native slopes that are
     steeper than 5:1 horizontal:vertical (H:V). Where native slopes are steeper than
     5:1 H:V, and the height of the fill is greater than five (5) feet, the fill shall be
     benched into competent materials. The height and width of the benches shall be
     at least two (2) feet.
  6. Representative samples of materials being used, as compacted fill will be
     analyzed in the laboratory by the Geotechnical Engineer to obtain information on
     their physical properties. Maximum laboratory density of each soil type used in
     the compacted fill will be determined by the ASTM Standard D1557 compaction
     method.
  7. Fill materials shall not be placed, spread or compacted during unfavorable
     weather conditions. When site grading is interrupted by heavy rain, filling
     operations shall not resume until the Geotechnical Engineer approves the
     moisture and density conditions of the previously placed fill.
  8. It shall be the Grading Contractor's obligation to take all measures deemed
     necessary during grading to provide erosion control devices in order to protect
     slope areas and adjacent properties from storm damage and flood hazard
     originating on this project. It shall be the contractor's responsibility to maintain
     slopes in their as-graded form until all slopes are in satisfactory compliance with
     job specifications, all berms have been properly constructed, and all associated
     drainage devices meet the requirements of the Civil Engineer.
E1.8 Trench Backfill
The following specifications are recommended to provide a basis for quality control during
the placement of trench backfill.
  1.   Trench excavations to receive backfill shall be free of trash, debris or other
       unsatisfactory materials at the time of backfill placement.
  2.   Trench backfill shall be compacted to a minimum relative compaction of 90
       percent as per ASTM Standard D1557 test method.
  3.   Rocks larger than one (1) inch should not be placed within 12 inches of the top of
       the pipeline or within the upper 12 inches of pavement or structure subgrade. No
       more than 30 percent of the backfill volume shall be larger than 3/4-inch in
       largest dimension diameter, and rocks shall be well mixed with finer soil.
  4.   The pipe design engineer should select bedding material for the pipe. Bedding
       materials generally should have a Sand Equivalent (SE) greater than or equal to
       30, as determined by the ASTM Standard D2419 test method.
  5.   Trench backfill shall be compacted by mechanical methods, such as sheepsfoot,
       vibrating or pneumatic rollers, or mechanical tampers, to achieve the density
       specified herein. The backfill materials shall be brought to within three (3)


   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
                                                                     Geoseismic/Geotechnical Study Report
                                                          Proposed Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School
                                                                              1157 South Berendo Street
                                                                                  Los Angeles, California
                                                                                      February 21, 2014
                                                                                                Page E-5

       percent of optimum moisture content for granular soils and between optimum and
       three (3) percent above optimum for fine-grained soils, then placed in horizontal
       layers. The thickness of uncompacted layers should not exceed eight (8) inches.
       Each layer shall be evenly spread, moistened or dried as necessary, and then
       tamped or rolled until the specified density has been achieved.
  6.   The contractor shall select the equipment and processes to be used to achieve
       the specified density without damage to adjacent ground and completed work.
  7.   The field density of the compacted soil shall be measured by the ASTM Standard
       D1556 or ASTM Standard D6938 test methods or equivalent.
  8.   Observation and field tests should be performed by Converse during construction
       to confirm that the required degree of compaction has been obtained. Where
       compaction is less than that specified, additional compactive effort shall be made
       with adjustment of the moisture content as necessary, until the specified
       compaction is obtained.
  9.   It should be the responsibility of the Contractor to maintain safe conditions during
       cut and/or fill operations.
 10.   Trench backfill shall not be placed, spread or rolled during unfavorable weather
       conditions. When the work is interrupted by heavy rain, fill operations shall not
       be resumed until field tests by the project's geotechnical consultant indicate that
       the moisture content and density of the fill are as previously specified.

E1.9 Observation and Testing

  1. During the progress of grading, the Geotechnical Engineer will provide
     observation of the fill placement operations.
  2. Field density tests will be made during grading to provide an opinion on the
     degree of compaction being obtained by the contractor. Where compaction of
     less than specified herein is indicated, additional compactive effort with
     adjustment of the moisture content shall be made as necessary, until the
     required degree of compaction is obtained.
  3. A sufficient number of field density tests will be performed to provide an opinion
     to the degree of compaction achieved. In general, density tests will be performed
     on each one-foot lift of fill, but not less than one for each 500 cubic yards of fill
     placed.




   Converse Consultants
MONROVIA\OFFICE\JOBFILE\2013\31\13-31-194 Mores YPI Charter School\13-31-194-01_GGSR Final.docx
APPENDIX C
     Noise
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

XII. NOISE -- Would the Project result in:

a) Exposure of persons to or generation of noise levels in excess of standards established in
the local general plan or noise ordinance, or applicable standards of other agencies?

Characteristics of Sound

Sound is technically described in terms of the loudness (amplitude) and frequency (pitch) of the
sound. The standard unit of measurement for sound is the decibel (dB). The human ear is not
equally sensitive to sound at all frequencies. The “A-weighted scale,” abbreviated dBA, reflects
the normal hearing sensitivity range of the human ear. On this scale, the range of human
hearing extends from approximately 3 to 140 dBA. Table 12-1 provides examples of A-weighted
noise levels from common sources.



 TABLE 12-1:          A-WEIGHTED DECIBEL SCALE
                                Typical A-Weighted Sound Levels                                                        Sound Level (dBA, Leq)
 Threshold of Pain                                                                                                                              140
 Jet Takeoff at 100 Meters                                                                                                                      125
 Jackhammer at 15 Meters                                                                                                                        95
 Heavy Diesel Truck at 15 Meters                                                                                                                85
 Conversation at 1 Meter                                                                                                                        60
 Soft Whisper at 2 Meters                                                                                                                       35
 Source: United States Occupational Safety & Health Administration, Noise and Hearing Conversation Technical Manual, 1999.




Noise Definitions

This noise analysis discusses sound levels in terms of Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL)
and Equivalent Noise Level (Leq).

Community Noise Equivalent Level. CNEL is an average sound level during a 24-hour period.
CNEL is a noise measurement scale, which accounts for noise source, distance, single event
duration, single event occurrence, frequency, and time of day. Human reaction to sound
between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. is as if the sound were actually 5 dBA higher than if it
occurred from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. From 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., humans perceive sound as
if it were 10 dBA higher due to the lower background level. Hence, the CNEL is obtained by
adding an additional 5 dBA to sound levels in the evening from 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 10
dBA to sound levels in the night from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Because CNEL accounts for human
sensitivity to sound, the CNEL 24-hour figure is always a higher number than the actual 24-hour
average.

Equivalent Noise Level. Leq is the average noise level on an energy basis for any specific time
period. The Leq for one hour is the energy average noise level during the hour. The average
noise level is based on the energy content (acoustic energy) of the sound. Leq can be thought of
as the level of a continuous noise that has the same energy content as the fluctuating noise
level. The equivalent noise level is expressed in units of dBA.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report


Effects of Noise

The degree to which noise can impact the environment ranges from levels that interfere with
speech and sleep to levels that cause adverse health effects. Human response to noise is
subjective and can vary from person to person. Factors that influence individual response
include the intensity, frequency, and pattern of noise, the amount of background noise present
before the intruding noise, and the nature of work or human activity exposed to the source.

Audible Noise Changes

Small perceptible changes in sound level for a person with normal hearing sensitivity is
approximately 3 dBA. A change of at least 5 dBA would be noticeable and could produce a
community reaction. A 10 dBA increase is heard as a doubling in loudness and would produce a
community response.

Noise levels decrease as the distance from the noise source to the receiver increases. Noise
generated by a stationary noise source, or “point source,” will decrease by approximately 6 dBA
over hard surfaces (e.g., reflective surfaces such as parking lots or smooth bodies of water) and
7.5 dBA over soft surfaces (e.g., absorptive surfaces such as soft dirt, grass, or scattered bushes
and trees) for each doubling of distance. For example, if a noise source produces a noise level of
89 dBA at a reference distance of 50 feet, the noise level would be 83 dBA at a distance of 100
feet from the noise source, 77 dBA at a distance of 200 feet, and so on. Noise generated by a
mobile source will decrease by approximately 3 dBA over hard surfaces and 4.5 dBA over soft
surfaces for each doubling of distance.

Noise is most audible when traveling by direct line-of-sight, a visual path between the noise
source and noise receptor. Barriers, such as walls or buildings that break the line-of-sight
between the source and the receiver can greatly reduce noise levels from the source since
sound can only reach the receiver by diffraction. Sound barriers can reduce sound levels by up
to 20 dBA or more. However, if a barrier is not high or long enough to break the line-of-sight
from the source to the receiver, its effectiveness is greatly reduced.

The California Department of Health Services has established guidelines for acceptable exterior
noise levels for each county and city. These standards and criteria are incorporated into the
land use planning process to reduce future noise and land use incompatibilities. Table 12-2
reflects State guidance that allows the City to ensure integrated planning for compatibility
between land uses and outdoor noise.
    MORCS Charter School Project
    Noise Impact Report

TABLE 12-2:           LAND USE COMPATIBILITY FOR COMMUNITY NOISE ENVIRONMENTS
                                                                                           Community Noise Exposure (dBA, CNEL)
                    Land Use Category                                              55           60          65           70           75            80

Residential - Low Density Single-Family, Duplex,
Mobile Homes


Residential - Multi-Family



Transient Lodging - Motels Hotels



Schools, Libraries, Churches, Hospitals, Nursing Homes



Auditoriums, Concert Halls, Amphitheaters



Sports Arena, Outdoor Spectator Sports



Playgrounds, Neighborhood Parks


Golf Courses, Riding Stables, Water Recreation,
Cemeteries



Office Buildings, Business Commercial and Professional



Industrial, Manufacturing, Utilities, Agriculture



       Normally Acceptable - Specified land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any buildings involved are of normal conventional construction
       without any special noise insulation requirements.

       Conditionally Acceptable - New construction or development should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements is
       made and needed noise insulation features included in the design. Conventional construction, but with closed windows and fresh air supply system or air
       conditioning will normally suffice.

       Normally Unacceptable - New construction or development should generally be discouraged. If new construction or development does proceed, a
       detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements must be made and needed noise insulation features included in the design.

       Clearly Unacceptable - New construction or development should generally not be undertaken.



Source: California Office of Noise Control, Department of Health Services.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

State interior noise standards were established in 1974, when the California Commission on
Housing and Community Development adopted noise insulation standards for residential
buildings (Title 24, Part 2, California Code of Regulations). Title 24 establishes standards for
interior room noise attributable to outside noise sources. Title 24 also specifies that acoustical
studies should be prepared whenever a residential building or structure is proposed to be
located in areas with exterior noise levels of 60 dB Day-Night Average Noise Level (Ldn) or
greater. The acoustical analysis must show that the building has been designed to limit
intruding noise to an interior level not exceeding 45 dB Ldn for any habitable room.

Applicable Regulations

The City of Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) has established both construction and operation
noise regulations. Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., in any residential zone of the
City or within 500 feet thereof, no person shall operate or cause to be operated any powered
equipment or powered hand tool that produces a maximum noise level exceeding the following
noise limits at a distance of 50 feet therefrom:

       75 dBA for construction, industrial, and agricultural machinery including crawler-
        tractors, dozers, rotary drills and augers, loaders, power shovels, cranes, derricks, motor
        graders, paving machines, off-highway trucks, ditchers, trenchers, compactors, scrapers,
        wagons, pavement breakers, compressors and pneumatic or other powered equipment;

       75 dBA for powered equipment of 20 horse-power or less intended for infrequent use in
        residential areas, including chain saws, log chippers and powered hand tools;

       65 dBA for powered equipment intended for repetitive use in residential areas,
        including lawn mowers, backpack blowers, small lawn and garden tools.1

Additionally, according to the LAMC, a noise level increase of five decibels over the existing
average ambient noise level at an adjacent property line is considered a noise violation. This
standard applies to sources such as consumer electronics, HVAC systems, powered equipment
intended for repeated use in residential areas and motor vehicles driven onsite. Section 41.40
of the LAMC also prohibits construction activity from occurring between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, and between 6 p.m. and 8 a.m. on Saturday.

In addition, the Los Angeles Unified School District has other standards that are used by the its
Office of Environmental Health and Safety to gauge acceptable noise levels inside classrooms.
This includes a maximum interior classroom noise level of 55 dBA L10 or 45 dBA Leq.2

Construction Noise Impacts

Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. For purposes of assessing noise
impacts on sensitive populations, the following sensitive receptors to the Project Site were
identified for analysis:


1
    City of Los Angeles, Municipal Code, 1986.
2
    The L10 value is the noise level exceeded 10 percent of the time. This accounts for any annoying peaks of noise.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

       1110 Berendo Street. This apartment building is 60 feet directly east of the Project site
        and has a direct line of sight to the Project site. Primary noise sources were children
        playing and some traffic.

       2695 West 11th Street. This apartment complex is 65 feet north of the Project site
        across 11th Street. Because its grade is 6 feet lower than the adjacent Project site, the
        only line of sight into the school and playing fields is from the second floor of this and
        other buildings on 11th Street. Noise was primarily from the schoolyard, which is
        approximately 6 feet higher than the street.

       1025 Dewey Avenue. This site is 320 feet north of the site and is a larger apartment
        building with a higher density of receptors. Because its grade is over 28 feet lower than
        the Project site and has several intervening structures between, there is a minimal line
        of sight to the Project site. Because of its proximity to Olympic Boulevard, ambient
        noise is influenced by traffic; in addition, barking dogs and children playing at Berendo
        Middle School could also be heard.

       Northwest corner of South Kenmore and 11th Street. This site is 260 feet northwest of
        the Project site and represents ambient noise at the rear of homes abutting the school.
        Monitoring was not done directly next to the residences (e.g., 1102 Kenmore) because
        of the difference in topography (i.e., a large block retaining wall for the playing fields
        abuts the rear of the residential property lines) and an inability to access the sites.
        There was low-level ambient noise because kids were inside classrooms.

       West 12th Street. Apartments on the south side of West 12th Street face Berendo Middle
        School and could be exposed to construction or operational noise. Noise measurements
        were taken on the sidewalk on West 12th Street on the southern edge of Berendo
        Middle School across from Dewey Street, approximately 425 feet south of the Project
        boundary. These apartments are level with 12th Street and have a direct line of sight
        into the Berendo School grounds. However, these buildings are 16 feet higher than the
        grade of the Project site. The primary source of noise was from children playing outside,
        with minimal noise from traffic on West 12th Street and Dewey.

       Berendo Middle School (On-site campus). It should be noted that because construction
        activities would overlap with portions of the school year, the existing middle school
        would also be affected during school hours. Construction noise during classroom hours
        could increase ambient noise inside the classrooms, which are approximately 20 feet
        south of the Project site on a terrace level that is 8 feet higher than the Project site. In
        addition, any construction during outdoor play would increase ambient noise outside, as
        close as 10 feet from existing playground areas west of the Project site at the same
        terrace level as the Project site. Because on-site monitoring on the campus was not
        possible, noise measurements taken on the sidewalk on West 12th Street represent a
        conservative representation of ambient noise levels during outdoor play. The bulk of
        the campus is 16 feet higher than the grade of the Project site, with a smaller terraced
        level fronting Berendo Street that is 8 feet higher than the grade of the Project site.
    MORCS Charter School Project
    Noise Impact Report

    To ascertain the ambient noise levels at these sensitive receptors, DKA Planning took short-
    term, 15-minute noise readings at all five locations on April 8, 2014 using a Quest Technologies
    SoundPro DL Sound Level Meter.3 As shown in Table 12-3, ambient noise levels were relatively
    uniform in this residential neighborhood, ranging from 55.6 dBA Leq at Berendo Middle School to
    58.4 dBA Leq at the corner of 11th and Kenmore.

TABLE 12-3:          CONSTRUCTION NOISE LEVELS - UNMITIGATED
                                                              Distance             Maximum                   Existing             New
                                                             from Site*          Construction                Ambient             Ambient
                Sensitive Receptor                              (feet)         Noise Level (dBA)            (dBA, Leq)          (dBA, Leq)        Increase
Multi-family residences at 1110 Berendo                                  60                      73.1                56.9                  73.2        16.3
Multi-family residences at 2659 11th                                     65                      75.8                57.4                  75.9        18.5
Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                                  320                       67.1                58.0                  63.2         5.2
                                    th
Multi-family residences at 11 & Kenmore                                260                       61.8                58.4                  63.5         5.1
                                            th
Multi-family residences on West 12                                     425                       69.6                55.6                  61.0         5.4
Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)
demolition and grading phases                                            20                      58.1                40.6                  58.2        17.6
Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)
demolition and grading phases                                            10                      82.3                55.6                  82.3        26.7
Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)
construction phases                                                      20                      59.7                40.6                  59.8        28.3
Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)
construction phases                                                      10                      74.3                55.6                  74.4        18.8
SOURCE: DKA Planning, 2014.
* Assumes equipment operations are set back from property line on average 1/3 of the total depth of the property facing the adjacent use



    Construction, demolition (or removal of existing classroom building and other structures),
    ground clearing, grading, structural, and other noise-generating activities would occur between
    7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. in accordance with the LAMC. Construction activities would vary over
    several phases of development and would include off-road larger equipment such as tractors,
    loaders and smaller equipment such as saws, hammers, and pneumatic tools. The 16-month
    construction process would begin in Fall 2014 and end in Spring 2016 and include the following
    key stages:

                Demolition
                    o Removal of 10,000 square feet of restroom and bungalow buildings
                    o Removal of about 52,718 square feet of asphalt concrete pavement (4” depth)
                        and base material (5” depth) from the basketball courts, parking lot, and other
                        existing improvements
                    o Removal of three on-site trees
                    o Removal of related improvements (basketball poles, chain link fencing, retaining
                        walls, sidewalks)


    3
           The SoundPro meter complies with the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and International
           Electrothnical Commission (IEC) for general environmental noise measurement instrumentation. The meter was
           equipped with an omni-directional microphone, calibrated before the day’s measurements, and set at
           approximately five feet above the ground. Weather conditions were clear, 88 degrees temperature, with
           negligible wind.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

            o   Equipment would include a concrete/industrial saw, dozer, and three loaders
                that would produce a cumulative reference noise level of 91.2 dBA at 50 feet of
                distance
            o   On-Road trucks would generate noise from the export of 8,680 cubic yards of
                cut-and-fill materials (assumes 20 percent swell of cut materials) and demolition
                materials from the site to an off-site disposal location

       Grading
           o 9,664 cubic yards of cut materials for the underground parking garage and other
                site work
           o 2,430 cubic yards of fill
           o On-Road trucks would generate noise from the export of 8,680 cubic yards of
                cut-and-fill materials (assumes 20 percent swell of cut materials) from the site
                to an off-site disposal location
           o Equipment would include a rubber tired loader, grader, and dozer that would
                produce a cumulative reference noise level of 89.8 dBA at 50 feet of distance

       Construction
           o Construction of three one- and two-story buildings totaling about 34,000 square
               feet and a one-level subterranean parking garage
           o On-Road trucks would generate noise from the delivery of building materials to
               the site
           o Equipment would include a generator set, crane, forklift, rubber tired loader,
               and three welders that would produce a cumulative reference noise level of
               92.8 dBA at 50 feet of distance

       Paving
            o Installation of 3-4” of asphalt concrete over a 4” crushed aggregate base
            o On-Road trucks would generate noise from the delivery of paving materials to
               the site

Table 12-3 summarizes projected noise levels at nearby sensitive receptors during construction.
Land uses on the properties surrounding the Project site include multi-family residential and
school uses. Construction noise would generally peak during building construction, where up to
seven pieces of equipment could produce a cumulative 92.8 dBA at 50 feet of distance. This
would significantly increase ambient noise levels above 75 dBA at two of the off-site sensitive
receptors and represent increases of more than 5 dBA at all off-site receptors. In the absence of
attenuation, construction activities would generate maximum off-site noise levels of up to 75.9
dBA at the 11th Street residences, an increase of up to 18.5 dBA.

At the adjacent Berendo Middle School, noise levels would be most significant during the
demolition phase, where concrete asphalt and base layers would be removed right up to the
playground directly west and south of the Project site. In addition, grading of the underground
garage would potentially go right up to the playground area as well. These activities could
increase outside noise levels on the playground by up to 28.3 dBA. This could also increase
interior noise levels by 26.7 dBA inside any adjacent school buildings. Because construction
activities would increase ambient noise levels more than 5 dBA and elevate ambient noise levels
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

above 75 dBA at one or more adjacent sensitive receptors, the proposed Project would result in
significant but mitigable construction noise impacts.


Construction Phase Noise Mitigation Measures

N1      The Project shall comply with the City of Los Angeles Building Regulations Ordinance No.
        178048, which requires a construction site notice to be provided that includes the
        following information: job site address, permit number, name and phone number of the
        contractor and owner or owner’s agent, hours of construction allowed by code or any
        discretionary approval for the site, and City telephone numbers where violations can be
        reported. The notice shall be posted and maintained at the construction site prior to
        the start of construction and displayed in a location that is readily visible to the public.

N2      Construction and demolition activities shall be scheduled so as to avoid operating
        several pieces of equipment simultaneously, which causes high noise levels.

N3      The use of those pieces of construction equipment or construction methods with the
        greatest peak noise generation potential shall be minimized. Examples include the use
        of drills, jackhammers, and pile drivers.

N4      Noise and groundborne vibration construction activities whose specific location on the
        site may be flexible (e.g., operation of compressors and generators, cement mixing,
        general truck idling) shall be conducted as far as possible from the nearest noise- and
        vibration-sensitive land uses, and natural and/or manmade barriers (e.g., intervening
        construction trailers) shall be used to screen propagation of noise from such activities
        towards these land uses to the maximum extent possible.

N5      Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be erected
        between the proposed Project and homes across Berendo and West 11th Street to
        minimize the amount of noise during construction. These temporary sound barriers shall
        be capable of achieving a sound attenuation of at least 13 dBA and block the line-of-
        sight between the Project site and these adjacent land uses.

N6      Barriers such as plywood structures or flexible sound control curtains shall be erected
        between the proposed Project and the Berendo School buildings and playgrounds to the
        south and west of the Project site to minimize the amount of noise during all
        construction phases. These temporary sound barriers shall be capable of achieving a
        sound attenuation of at least 15 dBA and block the line-of-sight between the Project site
        and these adjacent land uses.

N7      The Project contractor shall use power construction equipment with state-of-the-art
        noise shielding and muffling devices capable of attenuating sound by 3 dBA or more.

N8      Demolition of concrete asphalt shall not be done during school hours when children are
        playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and west of the Project site.
    MORCS Charter School Project
    Noise Impact Report

    N9           Grading and construction of the underground garage shall not be done during school
                 hours when children are playing in the adjacent playgrounds south and west of the
                 Project site.

    N10          All construction truck traffic shall be restricted to truck routes approved by the City of
                 Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, which shall avoid residential areas and
                 other sensitive receptors to the extent feasible.

    N11          The construction staging area shall be as far from sensitive receptors as possible.

    N12          Two weeks prior to commencement of construction, notification shall be provided to
                 the off-site residential, school, and church uses within 500 feet of the Project site that
                 discloses the construction schedule, including the types of activities and equipment that
                 would be used throughout the duration of the construction period.

    N13          Any haul route for trucks disposing of demolished structures or concrete asphalt
                 material shall avoid residential streets to the extent possible.

TABLE 12-4:          CONSTRUCTION NOISE LEVELS - MITIGATED
                                                              Distance             Maximum                   Existing             New
                                                              from Site          Construction                Ambient             Ambient
                Sensitive Receptor                              (feet)*        Noise Level (dBA)            (dBA, Leq)          (dBA, Leq)        Increase
Multi-family residences at 1110 Berendo                                  60                      57.1                56.9                  60.0         3.1
Multi-family residences at 2659 11th                                     65                      59.8                57.4                  61.8         4.4
Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                                  320                       58.7                58.0                  61.4         3.4
                                    th
Multi-family residences at 11 & Kenmore                                260                       58.8                58.4                  61.6         3.2
Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)
demolition and grading phases                                            20                      40.1                40.6                  43.4         2.8
Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)
demolition and grading phases                                            10                      N/A                 55.6                  N/A         N/A
Berendo Middle School campus (indoor)
construction phases                                                      20                      41.7                40.6                  44.2         3.6
Berendo Middle School campus (outdoor)
construction phases                                                      10                      58.3                55.6                  60.2         4.6
SOURCE: DKA Planning, 2014.
* Assumes equipment operations are set back from property line on average 1/3 of the total depth of the property facing the adjacent use
N/A Assumes that demolition and grading activities are curtailed during outdoor play activities at Berendo Middle School.



    Haul trucks would generate noise off-site from nearly all phases of the construction process.
    This would include removal of materials from the Project site, including the net export of 8,680
    cubic yards of cut-and-fill materials, removal of asphalt, base materials, and demolished
    structures. Depending on the capacity of trucks, this could produce up to 868 haul trips during
    the peak phase of grading that add incremental traffic volumes to local roads. This addition of
    up to several truck trips per hour would marginally increase ambient noise along haul route
    roadways, as truck deployment onto local streets would not happen simultaneously, but rather
    be phased over the course of the day. There would also be truck-related noise on local streets
    from the delivery of asphalt, base material, and building construction materials to the site.
    These would generally not occur simultaneously with the removal of materials, as the phasing
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

process generally wouldn’t accommodate concurrent import and export activities. Mitigation
Measure N13 is intended to minimize off-site noise from haul trucks that could increase noise
levels in adjacent residential neighborhoods.

Construction Noise Impacts After Mitigation

As shown in Table 12-4, construction noise levels after mitigation would be reduced at nearby
sensitive receptors to less than 75 dBA with implementation of Mitigation Measures N1 through
N13. Noise increases would be less than the 5 dBA threshold of significance that represents a
significant audible increase in ambient noise. Construction equipment could produce
intermittent audible noise increases at adjacent residential housing; however, these would be
temporary and construction noise would be within the noise standards outlined in the City’s
Municipal Code. Implementation of Mitigation Measures N1 through N13 would reduce
construction noise impacts to less-than-significant levels. Mitigation Measures N5 and N6 will
require the erection of sound barriers that will attenuate construction noise for the off-site
homes and the adjacent Berendo Middle School, respectively. A combination of sound barrier
construction design, materials, and height will be needed to achieve noise attenuation. For
example, every meter of additional height above the line of sight from a noise source to a
receiver can attenuate an addition 1.5 dBA of noise. Finally, Mitigation Measures N8 and N9
ensures that any construction activities do not expose children playing outside to substantial
increases in noise levels.

Operations Noise Impacts

Less Than Significant Impact. During project operations, the development would produce both
direct noise impacts on the site from residential and commercial-related activities, as well as
indirect noise impacts from vehicles traveling on local roads to access the site. The direct
impacts would include stationary noises from sources associated with building operations, such
as heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems.

Section 41.40 and Chapter XI, Articles 1 through 6, of the LAMC requires that noise generated by
mechanical equipment not exceed 5 dBA above ambient noise levels at adjacent property lines.
Large ground level heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems typically generate
noise levels between 50 and 65 dBA at 50 feet.4 Roof-top mounted equipment typically
produces noise levels of up to approximately 56 dBA at 50 feet. The nearest off-site receptors
would be apartments at 1110 Berendo located approximately 60 feet east of the Project site.
These land uses would experience a 0.6 dBA increase in ambient noise. This negligible increase
is less than the 5 dBA significance threshold for long-term ambient noise increases. Therefore,
stationary noise would result in a less-than-significant impact.

The majority of operational noise impacts would be from indirect noise impacts associated with
the 243 net new vehicle trips each day with 81 vehicle trips entering and exiting the Project site
in the morning peak hour and 24 in the afternoon peak hour.5 The impact of this additional
traffic on ambient noise levels in the Project’s vicinity was modeled under existing year (2013)
no project scenario, existing year (2013) plus project scenario utilizing the FHWA TNM 2.5

4
    Los Angeles Department of City Planning, San Pedro Community Plan Draft EIR, August 2012.
5
    KOA Corporation, Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School; April 2014.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

model. As shown in Tables 12-5 and 12-6, the greatest project-related noise increases would be
0.3 dBA Leq along 11th Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa during both the AM and PM
peak hours.

Mobile noise generated by the proposed Project would not cause the ambient noise level
measured at the property line of the affected uses to rise to the “normally unacceptable” or
“clearly unacceptable” category or result in any 5 dBA or more increase in noise level. As a
result, these inaudible, off-site vehicular noise impacts would be considered a less-than-
significant impact.


TABLE 12-5:          ESTIMATED AM PEAK HOUR MOBILE SOURCE NOISE LEVELS
                                                                    Estimated dBA, CNEL
                                                  No Project   With Project     Project      Significant
                    Roadway Segment                (2013)        (2013)         Change        Impact?
Olympic Boulevard between Catalina and Berendo          66.3           66.3           +0.0             No
Olympic Boulevard between Berendo and Vermont           69.8           69.8           +0.0            No
                                             th                                                       No
Vermont Avenue between Olympic and 11                   73.2           73.2           +0.0
                              th                                                                      No
Vermont Avenue between 12 and Pico                      73.2           73.2           +0.0
Pico Boulevard between Vermont and Berendo              71.5           71.5           +0.0            No
                                   th   th                                                            No
Normandie Avenue between 11 and 12                      71.0           71.0           +0.0
   th                                                                                                 No
11 Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa                62.3           62.6           +0.3
Source: DKA Planning, 2014.




TABLE 12-6:          ESTIMATED PM PEAK HOUR MOBILE SOURCE NOISE LEVELS
                                                                    Estimated dBA, CNEL
                                                  No Project   With Project     Project      Significant
                    Roadway Segment                (2013)        (2013)         Change        Impact?
Olympic Boulevard between Catalina and Berendo          66.4           66.4           +0.0             No
Olympic Boulevard between Berendo and Vermont           69.9           69.9           +0.0            No
                                             th                                                       No
Vermont Avenue between Olympic and 11                   72.6           72.6           +0.0
                              th                                                                      No
Vermont Avenue between 12 and Pico                      73.1           73.1           +0.0
Pico Boulevard between Vermont and Berendo              70.9           70.9           +0.0            No
                                   th   th                                                            No
Normandie Avenue between 11 and 12                      71.5           71.5           +0.0
   th                                                                                                 No
11 Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa                64.3           64.6           +0.3
Source: DKA Planning, 2014.


Finally, there would be long-term noise impacts from vehicles accessing the Project site. This
would include vehicles entering the underground garage from 11th Street, a student pick-
up/drop-off area from 11th Street, and associated car door slams. The proposed project is to be
built on what now includes a surface parking lot that is adjacent to sensitive receptors. Existing
car door slams can increase ambient noise levels at the nearest off-site receptor at 1110
Berendo by 0.9 dBA, a negligible increase. Because the proposed project is removing these
parking spaces and placing them in an underground garage that will attenuate some noise,
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

parking noise should decrease at nearby sensitive receptors. Because of this decrease in parking
activity, parking noise would result in a less-than-significant impact.



Operations Phase Noise Mitigation Measures

Operational noise impacts would be less than significant, and no mitigation measures are
required.

Operations Phase Noise Impacts After Mitigation

Operational noise impacts would be less than significant.

b) Exposure of persons to or generation of excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne
noise levels?

Characteristics of Vibration

Vibration is an oscillatory motion through a solid medium in which the motion’s amplitude can
be described in terms of displacement, velocity, or acceleration. Unlike noise, vibration is not a
common environmental problem. It is unusual for vibration from sources such as buses and
trucks to be perceptible. Common sources of vibration include trains, buses, and construction
activities.

Vibration Definitions

There are several different methods that are used to quantify vibration. The peak particle
velocity (PPV) is defined as the maximum instantaneous peak of the vibration signal. The PPV is
most frequently used to describe vibration impacts to buildings and is usually measured in
inches per second. The root mean square (RMS) amplitude is most frequently used to describe
the effect of vibration on the human body. The RMS amplitude is defined as the average of the
squared amplitude of the signal. Decibel notation (VdB) is commonly used to measure RMS.
The decibel notation acts to compress the range of numbers required to describe vibration.6

Effects of Vibration

High levels of vibration may cause physical personal injury or damage to buildings. However,
ground-borne vibration levels rarely affect human health. Instead, most people consider
ground-borne vibration to be an annoyance that may affect concentration or disturb sleep. In
addition, high levels of ground-borne vibration may damage fragile buildings or interfere with
equipment that is highly sensitive to ground-borne vibration.

Perceptible Vibration Changes

Unlike noise, ground-borne vibration is not an environmental issue that most people experience
every day. The background vibration velocity level in residential areas is usually 50 RMS or

6
    Federal Transit Administration, Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, May 2006.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

lower, well below the threshold of perception for humans, which is around 65 RMS.7 Most
perceptible indoor vibration is caused by sources within buildings, such as movement of people
or slamming of doors. Typical outdoor sources of ground-borne vibration are construction
equipment, trains, and traffic on rough roads. If the roadway is smooth, the vibration from
traffic is typically not perceptible.

Applicable Regulations

To counter the effects of ground-borne vibration, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has
published guidance relative to vibration impacts. According to the FTA, non-engineered timber
and mason buildings can be exposed to ground-borne vibration levels of 0.2 inches per second
without experiencing structural damage, while reinforced-concrete, steel, or timber buildings
can be exposed to ground-borne vibration levels of 0.5 inches per second.8

The FTA has also established guidelines that provide thresholds for ground-borne vibration
causing human annoyance. For residential land uses, which experience occasional events of
ground-borne vibration or noise, the FTA has established a threshold of 75 VdB. 9 Some
commercial buildings, such as auditoriums and theaters have additional vibration and noise
annoyance criteria.

In terms of construction-related impacts on buildings, the City of Los Angeles has not adopted
policies or guidelines relative to groundborne vibration. While the Los Angeles County Code
(LACC Section 12.08.350) states a presumed perception threshold of 0.01 inch per second RMS,
this threshold applies to groundborne vibrations from long-term operational activities, not
construction. Consequently, as both the City of Los Angeles and the County of Los Angeles do
not have a significance threshold to assess vibration impacts during construction, the FTA and
California Department of Transportation’s (Caltrans) adopted vibration standards for buildings
are used to evaluate potential impacts related to Project construction.

Based on these standards, groundborne vibration impacts during construction would be
considered if they would cause a PPV vibration level to exceed:

            0.5 inches per second at any reinforced-concrete, steel or timber buildings (no plaster);
            0.3 inches per second at any engineered concrete and masonry buildings (no plaster);
            0.2 inches per second at any non-engineered timber and masonry buildings (i.e.,
             “fragile” buildings);10 and
            0.12 inches per second at any building that is extremely susceptible to vibration damage
             (i.e., “extremely fragile” buildings).11

In addition, the City of Los Angeles has not adopted any thresholds associated with human
annoyance for groundborne vibration impacts. Therefore, this analysis uses the FTA’s vibration
impact thresholds for human annoyance. These thresholds include 80 VdB at residences and
buildings where people normally sleep (e.g., nearby residences) and 83 VdB at institutional

7
     Ibid.
8
     Ibid.
9
     Ibid.
10
     Ibid.
11
     Ibid.
  MORCS Charter School Project
  Noise Impact Report

  buildings, which includes schools and churches. No thresholds have been adopted or
  recommended for commercial and office uses. Table 12-7 identifies PPV and RMS velocity (in
  VdB) levels for the types of off-road and on-road equipment that could operate at the Project
  site during construction.


TABLE 12-7: VIBRATION SOURCE LEVELS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

                                             Approximate PPV (in/sec)                                 Approximate RMS (VdB)
     Equipment
                                25          50                                       100       25      50      60      75     100
                                                      60 Feet        75 Feet
                               Feet        Feet                                     Feet      Feet    Feet    Feet    Feet    Feet
Large Bulldozer                0.089       0.031         0.024         0.017         0.011       87      78      76      73     69
Caisson Drilling               0.089       0.031         0.024         0.017         0.011       87      78      76      73     69
Loaded Trucks                  0.076       0.027         0.020         0.015         0.010       86      77      75      72     68
Jackhammer                     0.035       0.012         0.009         0.007         0.004       79      70      68      65     61
Small Bulldozer                0.003       0.001        0.0008        0.0006        0.0004       58      49      47      44     40
Source: Federal Transit Administration, Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, 2006




  Construction Vibration Impacts

  Less Than Significant Impact. Groundborne vibration generated by construction activities
  associated with the proposed Project would primarily affect the off-site sensitive uses located in
  close proximity to the Project site. The closest is the multi-family residential buildings to the
  east across Berendo. As shown in Table 12-7, vibration velocities could range from 0.003 to
  0.089 inch/sec PPV at 25 feet from the source activity, with corresponding vibration levels
  ranging from 58 VdB to 87 VdB at 25 feet from the source activity, depending on the type of
  construction equipment in use. Table 12-8, Vibration Levels at Off-Site Sensitive Uses from
  Project Construction, shows the vibration velocity and levels that would occur at these off-site
  sensitive uses during construction at the Project site.

  The vibration velocities forecasted to occur at the off-site sensitive receptors would be less than
  0.024 PPV at the closest receptors on Berendo and 11th Street. While both are non-engineered
  timber and masonry buildings considered to be “fragile”, neither would experience a PPV
  groundborne vibration level that exceeds 0.2 inches per second. Thus, vibration impacts
  associated with building damage due to construction activities at the Project site would be less
  than significant and no mitigation measures are required.
   MORCS Charter School Project
   Noise Impact Report


TABLE 12-8: VIBRATION LEVELS AT OFF-SITE SENSITIVE USES FROM PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
                                                           Distance to Project   Estimated PPV         Estimated Vibration
                                                                                              a                          b
                 Sensitive Uses Offsite                         Site (ft.)           (in/sec)             Levels (VdB)
Multi-family residential at 1100 Berendo                                    60                0.024                        76
                               th
Multi-family residential on 11 Street                                       65                0.021                        75
Multi-family residences at 1025 Dewey                                      320                0.002                        54
                              th
Multi-family residences at 11 & Kenmore                                    260                0.003                        56
a
    The vibration velocities at the off-site sensitive uses are determined with the following equation from the Federal
                                                                                                                     1.5
    Transit Administration’s Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, Final Report: PPV equip=PPVref x (25/D) , where
    PPVequip = peak particle velocity in in/sec of equipment, PPVref = reference vibration level in in/sec at 25 feet, D =
    distance from the equipment to the receive.
b
    The vibration levels at the off-site sensitive uses are determined with the following equation from the Federal Transit
    Administration’s Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, Final Report: Lv(D)=Lv(25 ft) – 30log(D/25), where Lv
    = vibration level of equipment, D = distance from the equipment to the receiver, Lv(25 ft) = vibration level of equipment
    at 25 feet.
Source: DKA Planning, 2014.


   In terms of human annoyance, the vibration levels experienced by the off-site sensitive
   receptors would range from 54 VdB at 1025 Dewey to 76 VdB. The vibration levels experienced
   at all off-site sensitive receptors would not exceed the FTA’s 80 VdB threshold for residential
   uses.

   Construction Phase Vibration Mitigation Measure

   Construction-related groundborne vibration levels would be less than significant. No mitigation
   needed.

   Construction Vibration Impacts After Mitigation

   Construction-related groundborne vibration levels would be less than significant.


   Operations Phase Vibration Impacts

   Less Than Significant Impact. During operation of the proposed Project, there would not be
   significant stationary sources of ground-borne vibration, such as heavy equipment operations.
   Operational ground-borne vibration in the Project vicinity would be generated by vehicular
   travel on the local roadways. Road vehicles rarely create enough groundborne vibration to be
   perceptible to humans unless the road surface is poorly maintained and there are potholes or
   bumps. If traffic, typically heavy trucks, induces perceptible vibration in buildings, such as
   window rattling or shaking of small loose items, then it is most likely an effect of low-frequency
   airborne noise or ground characteristics. Project-related traffic would expose residential land
   uses during long-term operations to a vibration and noise level of far less than the FTA’s 80 VdB
   threshold for residential uses and would be considered less-than-significant.

   Operations Phase Vibration Mitigation Measures

   No mitigation needed.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

Operations Phase Vibration Impacts After Mitigation

Construction-related groundborne vibration levels would be less than significant.



c) A substantial permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the Project vicinity above levels
existing without the Project?

Less Than Significant Impact. The majority of any long-term noise impacts will come from traffic
traveling to and from the area. Off-site noise generated by traffic from the Project was modeled
under future year (2016) no project and with project conditions utilizing the FHWA TNM 2.5
model. When calculating future noise levels along project area roadways from traffic, additional
impacts from 37 additional potential new or proposed Projects were considered. Thus, the
future traffic results without and with the proposed Project account for the cumulative impacts
from these other projects. Since the noise impacts are generated directly from the traffic
analysis results, the future without project and future with project noise impacts described in
this report already reflect cumulative impacts.

The proposed Project would contribute to future increases in off-site noise levels at project area
roadways. Tables 12-9 and 12-10 present the cumulative increase in future traffic noise levels at
study intersections. As shown in Tables 12-9 and 12-10, the greatest project-related noise
increases would be 0.2 dBA Leq along 11th Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa during the
AM and PM peak hours. These impacts are considered negligible and would be less than the 5
dBA significance threshold. Therefore, the Project’s individual and cumulative mobile source
noise impacts would be considered less-than-significant.



TABLE 12-9:          ESTIMATED CUMULATIVE AM PEAK HOUR MOBILE SOURCE NOISE LEVELS
                                                                    Estimated dBA, CNEL
                                                  No Project   With Project     Project      Significant
                    Roadway Segment                (2016)        (2016)         Change        Impact?
Olympic Boulevard between Catalina and Berendo          66.7           66.7           +0.0             No
Olympic Boulevard between Berendo and Vermont           70.1           70.1           +0.0            No
                                             th                                                       No
Vermont Avenue between Olympic and 11                   73.6           73.6           +0.0
                              th                                                                      No
Vermont Avenue between 12 and Pico                      73.6           73.6           +0.0
Pico Boulevard between Vermont and Berendo              71.8           71.8           +0.0            No
                                   th   th                                                            No
Normandie Avenue between 11 and 12                      71.8           71.8           +0.0
   th                                                                                                 No
11 Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa                62.6           62.8           +0.2
Source: DKA Planning, 2014.
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

TABLE 12-10: ESTIMATED CUMULATIVE PM PEAK HOUR MOBILE SOURCE NOISE LEVELS
                                                                              Estimated dBA, CNEL
                                                           No Project    With Project      Project       Significant
                     Roadway Segment                        (2013)         (2013)          Change         Impact?
Olympic Boulevard between Catalina and Berendo                    67.0           67.0             +0.0             No
Olympic Boulevard between Berendo and Vermont                     70.4           70.4             +0.0            No
                                                 th                                                               No
Vermont Avenue between Olympic and 11                             73.4           73.4             +0.0
                                 th                                                                               No
Vermont Avenue between 12 and Pico                                73.7           73.7             +0.0
Pico Boulevard between Vermont and Berendo                        71.6           71.6             +0.0            No
                                      th    th                                                                    No
Normandie Avenue between 11 and 12                                72.3           72.3             +0.0
     th                                                                                                           No
11 Avenue between Normandie and Mariposa                          64.6           64.8             +0.2
Source: DKA Planning, 2014.


d) A substantial temporary or periodic increase in ambient noise levels in the Project vicinity
above levels existing without the Project?

Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Construction of the Project would
contribute to cumulative construction noise levels. There are 37 related projects that are
proposed for development in the area.12 Of these, none of the related projects are within 500
feet of the proposed Project with potential to cause audible increases at identified sensitive
receptors. All potential projects in the area are more than 1,000 feet away and not likely to
influence localized pollutant concentrations at sensitive receptors adjacent to the Project site.

Regardless, any construction noise from any future site, were it to occur concurrently with the
proposed Project, would be attenuated by the distance across intervening streets and/or
structures that break the line of sight from this site to the nearby receptors. Additionally, any
such projects would be subject to the City’s noise ordinance, which limits the hours of allowable
construction activities and the extent to which direct noise impacts can affect adjacent land
uses. With conformance with the City’s noise ordinance and incorporation of Mitigation
Measures N1 through N13, the Project’s cumulative construction noise impact would be
considered less than significant.

e) For a project located within an airport land use plan or, where such a plan has not been
adopted, within two miles of a public airport or public use airport, would the Project expose
people residing or working in the Project area to excessive noise levels?

No Impact. The proposed Project site would not be located within an airport land use plan or
within two miles of a public airport or public use airport. As such, the Project would not expose
future employees or students to excessive airport-related noise levels.




12
          KOA Corporation, Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School; April 2014
MORCS Charter School Project
Noise Impact Report

f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, would the Project expose people
residing or working in the Project area to excessive noise levels?

No Impact. The proposed Project site is not in the vicinity of a private airstrip. As a result, the
proposed Project will not expose future employees or students to excessive noise levels from
any private airstrip.
    




           


                




                    -PDBUJPOT
                    #FSFOEP4U
                    UI4U
                    %FXFZ4U
                    /8$PSOFS,FONPSFUI
                    4U
                    #FSFOEP.JEEMF4DIPPM
                    
        
                                         1025 Dewey Street
                                                     4/8/2014
Information Panel
 Name                                  S016_BIJ050019_08042014_185750
 Start Time                            Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:10:19
 Stop Time                             Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:25:19
 Device Model Type                     SoundPro DL
 Comments


General Data Panel
 Description           Meter           Value                          Description           Meter           Value
 Leq                   1               58 dB                          Dose                  1               0%
 Pdose                 1               0%                             Lmin                  1               43.2 dB
 Lmax                  1               76.6 dB                        Lpk                   1               95 dB
 TWA                   1               43 dB                          OL%                   1               0%
 CNEL                  1               58 dB                          ULtime                1               00:00:00
 Takt                  1               61 dB                          SEL                   1               87.5 dB
 ExpSec                1               0.2 Pa2-Sec                    LDN                   1               58 dB
 UR%                   1               0%                             L1                    1               70.7 dB
 L10                   1               58.7 dB                        L50                   1               50.2 dB
 L90                   1               46.5 dB                        Mntime                1               4/8/2014
12:19:58 PM
 Mxtime                1               4/8/2014 12:11:24 PM           PKtime                1               4/8/2014
12:12:23 PM
 Projected TWA         1               58 dB                          Dose8                 1               0%
 ExpHrs                1               0.00 Pa2-Hours                 Exchange Rate         1               3 dB
 Weighting             1               A                              Response              1               SLOW
 Bandwidth             1               OFF                            Exchange Rate         2               3 dB
 Weighting             2               C                              Response              2               SLOW


Statistics Chart




Statistics Table
dB      0.0      0.1       0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.6          0.7      0.8       0.9   %
40.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
41.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
42.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
43.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.1     0.1          0.1      0.1       0.1   0.6
44.0    0.1      0.1       0.1   0.1         0.2        0.2     0.2          0.2      0.3       0.4   2.0
45.0    0.4      0.3       0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.4          0.3      0.5       0.7   3.8
46.0    0.4      0.4       0.6   0.6         0.6        0.7     0.7          0.7      0.8       0.9   6.6

                                                                                                                       1
Statistics Table (cont'd)
dB     0.0     0.1      0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.9   %
47.0   1.0     1.0      0.6          1.0          0.8          0.9          0.9          1.1     1.2    1.3   9.8
48.0   0.8     0.9      0.8          0.9          1.0          1.1          0.8          0.9     1.0    1.2   9.4
49.0   1.0     1.2      1.4          1.4          1.5          1.3          1.1          1.2     1.6    1.7   13.5
50.0   1.6     1.6      1.0          1.2          1.1          1.2          1.2          1.6     1.5    1.4   13.4
51.0   1.3     1.1      1.1          1.1          0.9          0.9          0.8          0.7     1.0    0.8   9.6
52.0   0.8     0.9      0.7          0.7          0.7          0.6          0.5          0.5     0.5    0.6   6.4
53.0   0.6     0.6      0.5          0.6          0.6          0.6          0.5          0.6     0.4    0.3   5.2
54.0   0.4     0.4      0.4          0.3          0.3          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.2   2.8
55.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.3    0.2   2.5
56.0   0.3     0.2      0.1          0.1          0.2          0.2          0.1          0.2     0.2    0.2   1.8
57.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.2
58.0   0.2     0.2      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.2    0.1   1.4
59.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.9
60.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.9
61.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.0
62.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.6
63.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.6
64.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.8
65.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.2
66.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.1
67.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.8
68.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.4
69.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.3
70.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.3
71.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.3
72.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
73.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
74.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
75.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
76.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
77.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
78.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
79.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
80.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0

Exceedance Chart




Exceedance Table
        0%       1%           2%           3%           4%           5%           6%           7%      8%     9%
0%               70.7         67.9         66.6         65.7         64.8         63.5         61.8    60.8   59.8
10%     58.7     57.9         57.2         56.6         55.9         55.6         55.2         54.7    54.3   54.0
20%     53.7     53.5         53.3         53.2         53.0         52.8         52.6         52.4    52.3   52.1
30%     52.0     51.9         51.8         51.7         51.5         51.4         51.3         51.2    51.1   51.0
40%     50.9     50.8         50.8         50.7         50.6         50.6         50.5         50.4    50.3   50.2
50%     50.2     50.1         50.0         49.9         49.9         49.8         49.7         49.7    49.6   49.5
60%     49.4     49.4         49.3         49.2         49.2         49.1         49.0         48.9    48.8   48.7
70%     48.6     48.5         48.4         48.3         48.2         48.1         48.0         47.9    47.8   47.7
80%     47.6     47.5         47.4         47.3         47.2         47.1         46.9         46.8    46.7   46.6
90%     46.5     46.3         46.2         46.0         45.8         45.6         45.3         44.9    44.7   44.2
100%    43.1




                                                                                                                     2
                                       1110 Berendo Street
                                                     4/8/2014
Information Panel
 Name                                  S014_BIJ050019_08042014_185749
 Start Time                            Tuesday, April 08, 2014 11:31:31
 Stop Time                             Tuesday, April 08, 2014 11:46:31
 Device Model Type                     SoundPro DL
 Comments


General Data Panel
 Description           Meter           Value                          Description           Meter           Value
 Leq                   1               56.9 dB                        Dose                  1               0%
 Pdose                 1               0%                             Lmin                  1               45.9 dB
 Lmax                  1               70.2 dB                        Lpk                   1               92.6 dB
 TWA                   1               41.9 dB                        OL%                   1               0%
 CNEL                  1               56.9 dB                        ULtime                1               00:00:00
 Takt                  1               58.9 dB                        SEL                   1               86.5 dB
 ExpSec                1               0.1 Pa2-Sec                    LDN                   1               56.9 dB
 UR%                   1               0%                             L1                    1               68.3 dB
 L10                   1               59.7 dB                        L50                   1               52.6 dB
 L90                   1               48.3 dB                        Mntime                1               4/8/2014
11:34:04 AM
 Mxtime                1               4/8/2014 11:32:24 AM           PKtime                1               4/8/2014
11:44:15 AM
 Projected TWA         1               56.9 dB                        Dose8                 1               0%
 ExpHrs                1               0.00 Pa2-Hours                 Exchange Rate         1               3 dB
 Weighting             1               A                              Response              1               SLOW
 Bandwidth             1               OFF                            Exchange Rate         2               3 dB
 Weighting             2               C                              Response              2               SLOW


Statistics Chart




Statistics Table
dB      0.0      0.1       0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.6          0.7      0.8       0.9   %
40.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
41.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
42.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
43.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
44.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
45.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
46.0    0.1      0.1       0.1   0.2         0.2        0.2     0.1          0.2      0.2       0.3   1.6

                                                                                                                       1
Statistics Table (cont'd)
dB     0.0     0.1      0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.9   %
47.0   0.5     0.6      0.6          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.4          0.5     0.6    0.7   5.3
48.0   0.7     0.7      0.7          0.8          0.8          0.8          0.9          1.0     0.9    0.8   8.1
49.0   0.8     0.9      1.0          1.1          1.1          1.0          1.1          1.1     1.1    1.1   10.3
50.0   1.4     1.3      0.8          1.2          1.1          1.0          0.8          0.9     1.1    0.9   10.5
51.0   0.9     0.8      0.9          0.9          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.8     1.1    0.7   8.1
52.0   0.8     0.9      0.8          0.8          1.0          0.8          0.7          0.8     0.9    0.7   8.3
53.0   0.7     0.8      0.5          0.6          0.7          0.8          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.7   6.9
54.0   0.6     0.6      0.7          0.5          0.7          0.6          0.6          0.7     0.9    0.8   6.7
55.0   0.7     0.6      0.6          0.7          0.6          0.6          0.6          0.7     0.6    0.7   6.4
56.0   0.5     0.6      0.4          0.5          0.6          0.6          0.7          0.7     0.6    0.5   5.8
57.0   0.5     0.5      0.6          0.5          0.4          0.5          0.4          0.4     0.4    0.5   4.8
58.0   0.5     0.6      0.6          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4     0.4    0.4   4.5
59.0   0.4     0.3      0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.4    0.3   3.1
60.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.1   1.9
61.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.1          0.2     0.2    0.2   1.8
62.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.1          0.2          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.2    0.2   1.5
63.0   0.2     0.1      0.1          0.2          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.4
64.0   0.2     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.0   0.8
65.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.3
66.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.1          0.1          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.1   0.4
67.0   0.0     0.1      0.1          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1          0.1     0.0    0.1   0.6
68.0   0.0     0.0      0.1          0.0          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.6
69.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.5
70.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
71.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
72.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
73.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
74.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
75.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
76.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
77.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
78.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
79.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
80.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0

Exceedance Chart




Exceedance Table
        0%       1%           2%           3%           4%           5%           6%           7%      8%     9%
0%               68.3         66.3         64.0         63.2         62.6         61.9         61.3    60.8   60.2
10%     59.7     59.5         59.1         58.8         58.6         58.3         58.1         57.9    57.7   57.5
20%     57.2     57.1         56.9         56.7         56.5         56.4         56.2         56.0    55.8   55.7
30%     55.5     55.4         55.2         55.0         54.9         54.8         54.7         54.5    54.3   54.2
40%     54.0     53.9         53.7         53.6         53.4         53.3         53.1         53.0    52.8   52.7
50%     52.6     52.5         52.3         52.2         52.1         52.0         51.9         51.7    51.6   51.5
60%     51.4     51.2         51.1         51.0         50.9         50.8         50.7         50.6    50.4   50.3
70%     50.3     50.2         50.1         50.0         49.9         49.8         49.7         49.6    49.5   49.5
80%     49.4     49.3         49.2         49.1         49.0         48.9         48.7         48.6    48.5   48.4
90%     48.3     48.1         48.0         47.9         47.7         47.5         47.3         47.1    46.9   46.6
100%    45.8




                                                                                                                     2
                                           2695 11th Street
                                                     4/8/2014
Information Panel
 Name                                  S015_BIJ050019_08042014_185750
 Start Time                            Tuesday, April 08, 2014 11:51:16
 Stop Time                             Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:06:16
 Device Model Type                     SoundPro DL
 Comments


General Data Panel
 Description           Meter           Value                          Description           Meter           Value
 Leq                   1               57.4 dB                        Dose                  1               0%
 Pdose                 1               0%                             Lmin                  1               45.2 dB
 Lmax                  1               70.1 dB                        Lpk                   1               87.4 dB
 TWA                   1               42.3 dB                        OL%                   1               0%
 CNEL                  1               57.4 dB                        ULtime                1               00:00:00
 Takt                  1               59 dB                          SEL                   1               86.9 dB
 ExpSec                1               0.1 Pa2-Sec                    LDN                   1               57.4 dB
 UR%                   1               0%                             L1                    1               66.6 dB
 L10                   1               60.8 dB                        L50                   1               54.7 dB
 L90                   1               47.6 dB                        Mntime                1               4/8/2014
11:54:29 AM
 Mxtime                1               4/8/2014 11:52:11 AM           PKtime                1               4/8/2014
11:52:11 AM
 Projected TWA         1               57.4 dB                        Dose8                 1               0%
 ExpHrs                1               0.00 Pa2-Hours                 Exchange Rate         1               3 dB
 Weighting             1               A                              Response              1               SLOW
 Bandwidth             1               OFF                            Exchange Rate         2               3 dB
 Weighting             2               C                              Response              2               SLOW


Statistics Chart




Statistics Table
dB      0.0      0.1       0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.6          0.7      0.8       0.9   %
40.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
41.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
42.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
43.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
44.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
45.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.1          0.1      0.2       0.1   0.5
46.0    0.2      0.2       0.3   0.5         0.5        0.6     0.5          0.7      0.9       0.9   5.3

                                                                                                                       1
Statistics Table (cont'd)
dB     0.0     0.1      0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.9   %
47.0   0.9     0.8      0.5          0.5          0.4          0.3          0.4          0.4     0.4    0.4   5.0
48.0   0.4     0.4      0.4          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.4          0.3     0.3    0.4   3.4
49.0   0.3     0.4      0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.4     0.3    0.4   3.4
50.0   0.5     0.5      0.4          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5     0.5    0.5   4.9
51.0   0.7     0.8      0.7          0.8          0.9          0.9          0.7          1.0     1.0    0.9   8.2
52.0   0.7     0.6      0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7          0.7     0.7    0.8   6.9
53.0   0.8     0.7      0.5          0.7          0.6          0.6          0.5          0.5     0.6    0.6   6.2
54.0   0.6     0.8      0.7          0.7          0.7          0.6          0.7          0.7     0.8    0.9   7.2
55.0   0.9     0.9      0.8          0.9          0.8          0.9          0.8          0.8     0.8    0.8   8.3
56.0   0.8     0.8      0.6          0.8          0.7          0.7          0.6          0.7     0.7    0.5   6.9
57.0   0.5     0.5      0.6          0.7          0.8          0.7          0.7          0.7     0.7    0.7   6.6
58.0   0.7     0.8      0.8          0.7          0.8          0.8          0.8          0.7     0.9    0.8   7.8
59.0   0.7     0.7      0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5     0.5    0.5   5.4
60.0   0.6     0.4      0.4          0.4          0.4          0.3          0.4          0.5     0.5    0.5   4.5
61.0   0.4     0.3      0.3          0.2          0.2          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.3    0.3   2.9
62.0   0.3     0.4      0.2          0.1          0.1          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.2   2.1
63.0   0.2     0.1      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.3   2.0
64.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.2          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.0
65.0   0.1     0.1      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.3
66.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1     0.1    0.0   0.4
67.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1     0.1    0.0   0.4
68.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
69.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
70.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
71.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
72.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
73.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
74.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
75.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
76.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
77.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
78.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
79.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
80.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0

Exceedance Chart




Exceedance Table
        0%       1%           2%           3%           4%           5%           6%           7%      8%     9%
0%               66.6         64.4         63.7         63.2         62.6         62.0         61.7    61.4   61.0
10%     60.8     60.6         60.3         60.1         59.9         59.6         59.5         59.3    59.1   58.9
20%     58.8     58.7         58.5         58.4         58.3         58.1         58.0         57.9    57.7   57.6
30%     57.5     57.3         57.2         57.0         56.8         56.7         56.5         56.4    56.2   56.1
40%     55.9     55.8         55.7         55.6         55.4         55.3         55.2         55.1    55.0   54.9
50%     54.7     54.6         54.5         54.3         54.2         54.0         53.9         53.7    53.5   53.4
60%     53.2     53.0         52.9         52.8         52.6         52.5         52.3         52.2    52.0   51.9
70%     51.8     51.7         51.6         51.4         51.3         51.2         51.1         50.9    50.8   50.6
80%     50.4     50.2         49.9         49.7         49.4         49.1         48.8         48.5    48.2   47.9
90%     47.6     47.3         47.1         47.0         46.9         46.8         46.6         46.5    46.3   46.1
100%    45.1




                                                                                                                     2
                                 Berendo Middle School
                                                     4/8/2014
Information Panel
 Name                                  S018_BIJ050019_08042014_185751
 Start Time                            Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:59:37
 Stop Time                             Tuesday, April 08, 2014 13:14:37
 Device Model Type                     SoundPro DL
 Comments


General Data Panel
 Description           Meter           Value                          Description           Meter            Value
 Leq                   1               55.6 dB                        Dose                  1                0%
 Pdose                 1               0%                             Lmin                  1                43.8 dB
 Lmax                  1               72.3 dB                        Lpk                   1                93.2 dB
 TWA                   1               40.5 dB                        OL%                   1                0%
 CNEL                  1               55.6 dB                        ULtime                1                00:00:00
 Takt                  1               57.6 dB                        SEL                   1                85.1 dB
 ExpSec                1               0.1 Pa2-Sec                    LDN                   1                55.6 dB
 UR%                   1               0%                             L1                    1                66.4 dB
 L10                   1               58.3 dB                        L50                   1                50.3 dB
 L90                   1               46.2 dB                        Mntime                1                4/8/2014
1:10:17 PM
 Mxtime                1               4/8/2014 1:06:13 PM            PKtime                1                4/8/2014
1:06:13 PM
 Projected TWA         1               55.6 dB                        Dose8                 1                0%
 ExpHrs                1               0.00 Pa2-Hours                 Exchange Rate         1                3 dB
 Weighting             1               A                              Response              1                SLOW
 Bandwidth             1               OFF                            Exchange Rate         2                3 dB
 Weighting             2               C                              Response              2                SLOW


Statistics Chart




Statistics Table
dB      0.0      0.1       0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.6          0.7      0.8       0.9   %
40.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
41.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
42.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
43.0    0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.1   0.1
44.0    0.2      0.1       0.1   0.2         0.2        0.2     0.1          0.2      0.3       0.3   1.9
45.0    0.3      0.3       0.4   0.5         0.5        0.6     0.6          0.8      0.7       0.7   5.4
46.0    0.8      0.8       0.8   1.1         1.0        1.0     1.3          1.1      1.2       1.2   10.3

                                                                                                                        1
Statistics Table (cont'd)
dB     0.0     0.1      0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.9   %
47.0   1.1     1.1      0.8          1.0          1.1          1.0          0.9          0.8     0.8    0.9   9.4
48.0   0.9     0.9      1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0          1.1          0.9     0.9    1.0   9.8
49.0   1.0     0.9      1.0          1.1          1.2          1.0          0.8          0.9     0.9    0.9   9.6
50.0   0.9     0.9      0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8          0.6          0.7     0.7    0.9   7.8
51.0   1.0     1.0      0.9          0.8          0.8          0.7          0.7          0.7     0.5    0.6   7.7
52.0   0.7     0.6      0.6          0.7          0.8          0.6          0.6          0.6     0.6    0.6   6.3
53.0   0.6     0.5      0.4          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.4          0.5     0.5    0.6   4.8
54.0   0.5     0.4      0.4          0.4          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.5     0.5    0.5   4.7
55.0   0.5     0.4      0.5          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.6     0.5    0.6   4.8
56.0   0.5     0.5      0.4          0.5          0.4          0.4          0.3          0.3     0.3    0.3   3.8
57.0   0.3     0.3      0.3          0.3          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.3   2.5
58.0   0.3     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.3     0.2    0.2   2.1
59.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.1     0.2    0.2   2.0
60.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.1          0.2          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.4
61.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.2
62.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.8
63.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.1   0.9
64.0   0.1     0.1      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1          0.0     0.1    0.0   0.5
65.0   0.0     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.0          0.1          0.0     0.1    0.0   0.6
66.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.0    0.0   0.7
67.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
68.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
69.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
70.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
71.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
72.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
73.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
74.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
75.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
76.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
77.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
78.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
79.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
80.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0

Exceedance Chart




Exceedance Table
        0%       1%           2%           3%           4%           5%           6%           7%      8%     9%
0%               66.4         65.0         63.4         62.1         61.3         60.4         59.8    59.3   58.8
10%     58.3     57.9         57.5         57.0         56.7         56.4         56.2         55.9    55.7   55.6
20%     55.3     55.1         54.9         54.7         54.5         54.3         54.0         53.8    53.6   53.4
30%     53.2     53.0         52.8         52.6         52.5         52.3         52.2         52.0    51.8   51.7
40%     51.5     51.4         51.2         51.1         51.0         50.9         50.8         50.7    50.5   50.4
50%     50.3     50.1         50.0         49.9         49.8         49.7         49.6         49.4    49.3   49.3
60%     49.2     49.1         49.0         48.9         48.8         48.6         48.5         48.4    48.3   48.2
70%     48.2     48.1         47.9         47.8         47.7         47.6         47.5         47.4    47.3   47.2
80%     47.1     47.0         46.9         46.8         46.7         46.6         46.5         46.5    46.4   46.3
90%     46.2     46.0         45.9         45.8         45.6         45.5         45.3         45.1    44.8   44.4
100%    43.7




                                                                                                                     2
Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School Noise Monitoring Notes

1. 1110 Berendo Street

The first reading was taken at 11:30 am across from the playing fields of Berendo
Middle School at 1110 Berendo St. This site was chosen due to its line of sight
and close proximity to the proposed construction. Noise was generally from
children playing and a small amount of traffic. Readings were in front of multi-
family housing units.

2. 2695 11th Street

The second reading was taken at 11:50 in front of 2695 11th St. This site was
chosen due to its proximity to the construction zone and line of sight into the
school and playing fields. Noise was primarily from the schoolyard; there was
very little traffic along this street.

It should be noted that the playing fields are significantly higher than the street.

3. 1025 Dewey Street

The third reading was taken at 11:55 at 1025 Dewey Street. This site was chosen
because on a search of assisted living/ senior centers, this site was identified as
such although no signage on the building would indicated any particular use
other than apartments. It is closer to Olympic Blvd. than 11th Street so it would
also be impacted by Olympic Blvd. Noise was generated by traffic on Olympic
and dogs barking. One could still hear children playing at Berendo Middle
School.

4. NW Corner of Kenmore and 11th Street

The fourth reading was taken at 12:35 at the northwest corner of Kenmore & 11th
Street. This site was chosen to try and simulate what the noise is for the houses
abutting the school. Monitoring was not done directly next to the residences
(such as 1102 Kenmore) because of the difference in topography- directly next to
the residence the sound would be blocked by the large wall. At this time all to he
students seemed to be inside; there were now no sounds of children playing and
although visual access was limited, no children were seen on the playing fields
either.

5. Berendo Middle School

The fifth reading was taken on the sidewalk next to Berendo Middle School
across from Dewey Street oat 12:57. There were only a few children playing
outside. It should be noted that at this point the school is level with the street and
there is a direct line of sight into the school grounds and across to buildings at
higher elevation on the other side. Very little traffic was observed.

Overall the temperature was 88 degrees and virtually no wind.
                           NW Corner of Kenmore & 11th Street
                                                      4/8/2014
Information Panel
 Name                                   S017_BIJ050019_08042014_185751
 Start Time                             Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:36:55
 Stop Time                              Tuesday, April 08, 2014 12:51:55
 Device Model Type                      SoundPro DL
 Comments


General Data Panel
 Description           Meter            Value                          Description           Meter           Value
 Leq                   1                58.4 dB                        Dose                  1               0%
 Pdose                 1                0%                             Lmin                  1               42.9 dB
 Lmax                  1                73.2 dB                        Lpk                   1               95.2 dB
 TWA                   1                43.4 dB                        OL%                   1               0%
 CNEL                  1                58.4 dB                        ULtime                1               00:00:00
 Takt                  1                61 dB                          SEL                   1               88 dB
 ExpSec                1                0.2 Pa2-Sec                    LDN                   1               58.4 dB
 UR%                   1                0%                             L1                    1               67.6 dB
 L10                   1                62.5 dB                        L50                   1               52.9 dB
 L90                   1                47.3 dB                        Mntime                1               4/8/2014
12:47:07 PM
 Mxtime                1                4/8/2014 12:41:53 PM           PKtime                1               4/8/2014
12:47:57 PM
 Projected TWA         1                58.4 dB                        Dose8                 1               0%
 ExpHrs                1                0.00 Pa2-Hours                 Exchange Rate         1               3 dB
 Weighting             1                A                              Response              1               SLOW
 Bandwidth             1                OFF                            Exchange Rate         2               3 dB
 Weighting             2                C                              Response              2               SLOW


Statistics Chart




Statistics Table
dB      0.0      0.1        0.2   0.3         0.4        0.5     0.6          0.7      0.8       0.9   %
40.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
41.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
42.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0   0.0
43.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0     0.1          0.2      0.2       0.1   0.7
44.0    0.1      0.3        0.2   0.3         0.2        0.3     0.3          0.2      0.2       0.2   2.3
45.0    0.2      0.2        0.2   0.3         0.3        0.4     0.3          0.3      0.3       0.3   2.7
46.0    0.3      0.3        0.2   0.3         0.2        0.2     0.3          0.3      0.3       0.3   2.6

                                                                                                                        1
Statistics Table (cont'd)
dB     0.0     0.1      0.2          0.3          0.4          0.5          0.6          0.7     0.8    0.9   %
47.0   0.3     0.4      0.3          0.3          0.3          0.4          0.3          0.4     0.4    0.4   3.6
48.0   0.5     0.5      0.5          0.5          0.4          0.5          0.5          0.4     0.5    0.5   4.9
49.0   0.4     0.5      0.7          0.8          0.8          0.9          1.0          0.9     0.9    1.1   7.9
50.0   1.1     1.0      0.8          1.1          1.0          0.9          1.0          1.1     1.0    1.0   10.0
51.0   1.0     1.0      1.0          0.8          0.8          0.8          0.7          0.7     0.8    0.8   8.4
52.0   0.7     0.7      0.7          0.7          0.6          0.6          0.6          0.6     0.6    0.7   6.5
53.0   0.6     0.6      0.5          0.6          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5     0.5    0.5   5.2
54.0   0.5     0.5      0.5          0.6          0.6          0.5          0.5          0.4     0.5    0.4   5.0
55.0   0.4     0.4      0.6          0.5          0.5          0.6          0.6          0.5     0.6    0.5   5.2
56.0   0.5     0.5      0.4          0.4          0.6          0.6          0.5          0.6     0.6    0.5   5.2
57.0   0.6     0.5      0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4     0.3    0.3   4.2
58.0   0.3     0.3      0.3          0.4          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.4     0.4    0.4   3.5
59.0   0.4     0.4      0.3          0.3          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.3     0.3    0.3   3.6
60.0   0.3     0.3      0.3          0.4          0.4          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.4    0.4   3.2
61.0   0.4     0.3      0.3          0.3          0.4          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.3    0.3   3.3
62.0   0.4     0.4      0.3          0.2          0.3          0.3          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.2   2.8
63.0   0.2     0.3      0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3     0.3    0.4   2.8
64.0   0.2     0.2      0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2     0.2    0.2   2.0
65.0   0.2     0.3      0.2          0.1          0.2          0.2          0.1          0.1     0.1    0.2   1.7
66.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.2          0.1     0.1    0.1   1.2
67.0   0.1     0.1      0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1     0.0    0.0   0.7
68.0   0.1     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
69.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
70.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
71.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
72.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.2
73.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.1
74.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
75.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
76.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
77.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
78.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
79.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
80.0   0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0

Exceedance Chart




Exceedance Table
        0%       1%           2%           3%           4%           5%           6%           7%      8%     9%
0%               67.6         66.5         65.7         65.1         64.6         64.1         63.7    63.3   63.0
10%     62.5     62.2         61.9         61.5         61.2         60.9         60.7         60.3    60.0   59.7
20%     59.4     59.2         58.9         58.7         58.4         58.1         57.7         57.5    57.2   57.0
30%     56.8     56.6         56.5         56.3         56.1         55.9         55.7         55.5    55.3   55.1
40%     54.9     54.7         54.5         54.3         54.1         53.9         53.7         53.5    53.3   53.1
50%     52.9     52.8         52.6         52.4         52.3         52.1         52.0         51.8    51.7   51.6
60%     51.4     51.3         51.2         51.1         51.0         50.9         50.8         50.7    50.6   50.5
70%     50.4     50.3         50.2         50.1         50.0         49.9         49.8         49.7    49.6   49.5
80%     49.3     49.2         49.1         48.9         48.7         48.5         48.3         48.0    47.9   47.6
90%     47.3     47.0         46.7         46.3         45.9         45.6         45.3         44.8    44.4   44.0
100%    42.8




                                                                                                                     2
MORCS&Mobile&Noise

Existing(PM(Peak
                                                                                  Vehicle&Fleet&Assumptions
Road&Segment                               All&Vehicles        Auto                      Medium;Duty&Trucks              Heavy;Duty&Trucks                              dBA
              from:             to:              Total          %            Total            %            Total             %             Total            Speed   (from&TNM)
Olympic&Bl    Catalina          Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&3,349    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,048       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&201      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&100       35        66.4
Olympic&Bl    Berendo           Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&3,330    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,030       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&200      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&100       35        69.9
Vermont&Ave Olympic             11th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,350    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,139       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&141      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&71      35        72.6
Vermont&Ave 12th                Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&2,612    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,377       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&157      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&78      35        73.1
Pico&Blvd     Vermont           Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&1,734    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,578       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&104      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&52      35        70.9
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&1,770    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,611       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&106      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&53      35        71.5
11th&Ave      Normandie         Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&386   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&351      6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&23     3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&12      30        64.3

Existing(Plus(Project(PM(Peak
                                                                                  Vehicle&Fleet&Assumptions
Road&Segment                               All&Vehicles        Auto          Auto Medium;Duty&Trucks                   Heavy;Duty&Trucks                                dBA
              from:             to:              Total         Total         Total            %            Total              %             Total           Speed   (from&TNM) Increase&from&No&Project
Olympic&Bl    Catalina          Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&3,350    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,049       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&201       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&101      35        66.4        0.0
Olympic&Bl    Berendo           Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&3,332    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,032       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&200       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&100      35        69.9        0.0
Vermont&Ave Olympic             11th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,424    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,206       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&145       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&73     35        72.6        0.0
Vermont&Ave 12th                Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&2,691    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,449       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&161       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&81     35        73.1        0.0
Pico&Blvd     Vermont           Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&1,734    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,578       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&104       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&52     35        70.9        0.0
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&1,911    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,739       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&115       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&57     35        71.5        0.0
11th&Ave      Normandie         Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&388   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&353      6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&23      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&12     30        64.6        0.3

Future(PM(Peak
                                                                                  Vehicle&Fleet&Assumptions
Road&Segment                               All&Vehicles        Auto                      Medium;Duty&Trucks              Heavy;Duty&Trucks                              dBA
              from:             to:              Total          %            Total            %            Total             %             Total            Speed   (from&TNM)
Olympic&Bl    Catalina          Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&3,738    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,402       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&224      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&112       35        67.0
Olympic&Bl    Berendo           Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&3,723    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,388       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&223      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&112       35        70.4
Vermont&Ave Olympic             11th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,772    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,523       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&166      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&83      35        73.4
Vermont&Ave 12th                Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&2,969    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,702       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&178      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&89      35        73.7
Pico&Blvd     Vermont           Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&1,995    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,815       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&120      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&60      35        71.6
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,169    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,974       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&130      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&65      35        72.3
11th&Ave      Normandie         Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&395   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&359      6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&24     3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&12      30        64.6

Future(Plus(Project(PM(Peak
Road&Segment                               All&Vehicles        Auto          Auto Medium;Duty&Trucks               Heavy;Duty&Trucks                                    dBA
                from:           to:              Total         Total         Total       %             Total              %             Total               Speed   (from&TNM) Increase&from&No&Project
Olympic&Bl      Catalina        Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&3,744    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,407  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&225        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&112          35        67.0        0.0
Olympic&Bl      Berendo         Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&3,728    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,392  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&224        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&112          35        70.4        0.0
Vermont&Ave Olympic             11th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,706    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,462  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&162        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&81         35        73.4        0.0
Vermont&Ave 12th                Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&2,971    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,704  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&178        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&89         35        73.7        0.0
Pico&Blvd       Vermont         Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&1,997    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,817  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&120        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&60         35        71.6        0.0
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&2,171    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,976  6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&130        3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&65         35        72.3        0.0
11th&Ave        Normandie       Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&397   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&361 6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&24      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&12         30        64.8        0.2
MORCS&Mobile&Noise

Existing(AM(Peak
                                                                                            Vehicle&Fleet&Assumptions
Road&Segment                                    All&Vehicles             Auto                      Medium;Duty&Trucks              Heavy;Duty&Trucks                              dBA
                   from:        to:                   Total               %            Total            %            Total             %             Total            Speed   (from&TNM)
Olympic&Bl         Catalina     Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,198    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,910       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&192      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&96      35        66.3
Olympic&Bl         Berendo      Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,235    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,944       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&194      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&97      35        69.8
Vermont&Ave        Olympic      11th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,720    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,475       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&163      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&82      35        73.2
Vermont&Ave        12th         Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,720    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,475       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&163      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&82      35        73.2
Pico&Blvd          Vermont      Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&1,895    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,724       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&114      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&57      35        71.5
Normandie&Ave      11th         12th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&1,714    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,560       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&103      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&51      35        71.0
11th&Ave           Normandie    Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&208   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&189      6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&12     3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&6     30        62.3

Existing(Plus(Project(AM(Peak
Road&Segment                                    All&Vehicles             Auto          Auto Medium;Duty&Trucks               Heavy;Duty&Trucks                                    dBA
                   from:        to:                   Total              Total         Total       %             Total              %             Total               Speed   (from&TNM) Increase&from&No&Project
Olympic&Bl         Catalina     Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,203    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,915  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&192       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&96         35        66.3        0.0
Olympic&Bl         Berendo      Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,243    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,951  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&195       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&97         35        69.8        0.0
Vermont&Ave        Olympic      11th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,695    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,452  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&162       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&81         35        73.2        0.0
Vermont&Ave        12th         Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,734    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,488  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&164       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&82         35        73.2        0.0
Pico&Blvd          Vermont      Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&1,897    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,726  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&114       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&57         35        71.5        0.0
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&1,721    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,566  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&103       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&52         35         71         0.0
11th&Ave           Normandie    Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&216   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&197 6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&13      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&6        30        62.5        0.2

Future(AM(Peak
                                                                                            Vehicle&Fleet&Assumptions
Road&Segment                                    All&Vehicles             Auto                      Medium;Duty&Trucks              Heavy;Duty&Trucks                              dBA
                   from:        to:                   Total               %            Total            %            Total             %             Total            Speed   (from&TNM)
Olympic&Bl         Catalina     Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,453    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,142       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&207      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&104       35        66.7
Olympic&Bl         Berendo      Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,502    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,187       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&210      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&105       35        70.1
Vermont&Ave        Olympic      11th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,975    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,707       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&179      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&89      35        73.6
Vermont&Ave        12th         Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,023    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,751       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&181      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&91      35        73.6
Pico&Blvd          Vermont      Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,041    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,857       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&122      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&61      35        71.8
Normandie&Ave      11th         12th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,023    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,841       6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&121      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&61      35        71.8
11th&Ave           Normandie    Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&211   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&192      6%      &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&13     3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&6     30        62.6

Future(Plus(Project(AM(Peak
Road&Segment                                    All&Vehicles             Auto          Auto Medium;Duty&Trucks               Heavy;Duty&Trucks                                    dBA
                  from:         to:                   Total              Total         Total       %             Total              %             Total               Speed   (from&TNM) Increase&from&No&Project
Olympic&Bl        Catalina      Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,478    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,165  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&209       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&104          35        66.7        0.0
Olympic&Bl        Berendo       Vermont    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,522    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&3,205  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&211       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&106          35        70.1        0.0
Vermont&Ave       Olympic       11th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,985    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,716  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&179       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&90         35        73.6        0.0
Vermont&Ave       12th          Pico       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&3,031    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&2,758  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&182       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&91         35        73.6        0.0
Pico&Blvd         Vermont       Berendo    &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,051    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,866  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&123       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&62         35        71.8        0.0
Normandie&Ave 11th              12th       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&2,028    91%     &&&&&&&&&&&1,845  6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&122       3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&61         35        71.8        0.0
11th&Ave          Normandie     Mariposa   &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&220   91%     &&&&&&&&&&&&&&200 6%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&13      3%       &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&7        30        62.8        0.2
MORCS&'&Rooftop&HVAC&Stationary&Noise&'&Unmitigated


Reference&Noise&Distance                                       50
Reference&Noise&Level                                          56

                                                                     Additional&
                                                                     Setback&of&
                                                                      Sources&    Average&
                                                                        from&    Distance&of&               Maximum&& Existing&          New&
                                                         Distance&    Property&   Sources& Attenuation& Noise&Level&& Ambient&         Ambient&&
Sensitive&Receptor                                        (feet)    Line&(feet)*    (feet)     Factors        (dBA)      (dBA,&Leq) (dBA,&Leq) Increase
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                       60          183          243            6        48.4          56.9         57.5      0.6
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                                     65           60          125            9        44.7          57.4         57.6      0.2
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                        320           60          380        13.5         26.4          58.0         58.0      0.0
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th                      260          183          443          12         29.7          58.4         58.4      0.0
A&6&dBA&attenuation&was&given&for&a&point&source&over&a&hard&ground&surfuce,&and&3&dBA&reduction&was&given&for&the&first&row&of&buildings&intervening&
between&the&construction&site&and&sensitive&receptors&(1.5&dBA&for&subsequent&intervening&structures),&as&recommended&by&the&Caltrans&Technical&Noise&
MORCS&'&Parking&Lot&Noise&'&Unmitigated



Reference&Noise&Distance                                                          50
Reference&Noise&Level                                                           58.1

                                                                                                   Maximum&
                                                                                                   Parking&      Existing&    New&
                                                                         Distance&    Attenuation& Noise&Level&& Ambient&     Ambient&&
Sensitive&Receptor                                                       (feet)       Factors      (dBA)         (dBA,&Leq) (dBA,&Leq) Increase
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                                         60            6         50.5          56.9        57.8          0.9
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                                                       65            9         46.8          57.4        57.8          0.4
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                                         320          13.5         28.5          58.0        58.0          0.0
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th                                       260           12          31.8          58.4        58.4          0.0
A&6&dBA&attenuation&was&given&for&a&point&source&over&a&hard&ground&surfuce,&and&3&dBA&reduction&was&given&for&the&first&row&of&buildings&intervening&
between&the&construction&site&and&sensitive&receptors&(1.5&dBA&for&subsequent&intervening&structures),&as&recommended&by&the&Caltrans&Technical&
MORCS&'&Construction&Noise&'&Unmitigated
Reference&Noise&Distance                                      50 feet
Reference&Noise&Level                                       92.8 dBA
                                                                   Additional&
                                                                  Setback&of&
                                                                    Sources&    Average&
                                                                      from&    Distance&of&
                                                      Distance&     Property&   Sources&     Attenuation&
Sensitive&Receptor                                     (feet)     Line&(feet)*    (feet)       Factors
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                    60           183           243            6
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                                  65            60           125            9
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                     320            60           380         13.5
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th                   260           183           443           12
Berendo&Middle&School&(W.&12th&Street)                       425            60           485         13.5
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                       20           60            80            29
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                       10           60            70             6
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
construction                                                 20           60            80            29
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
construction                                                 10          200          210              6

Attenuation)assumptions:                                                     Source
'&Hard&ground&surface                                          6         dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&First&row&of&buildings&intevening&between&
construction&site&and&sensitive&receptor                       3         dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Each&subsequent&intervening&structure                      1.5         dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Soft&ground&surface                                        2.5         dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"

*&Assumes&average&activity&set&back&1/3&back&on&
property&from&applicable&property&line,&except&
building&construction&activities&that&are&200&feet&
east&of&the&playground&west&of&the&Project&site
                   Maximum&
                  Construction&
                   Noise&Level&& Existing&Ambient& New&Ambient&&
                     (dBA)          (dBA,&Leq)      (dBA,&Leq)      Increase
                           73.1              56.9            73.2          16.3
                           75.8              57.4            75.9          18.5
                           61.7              58.0            63.2           5.2
                           61.8              58.4            63.5           5.1
                           59.6              55.6            61.0           5.4

                           59.7             40.6            59.8          19.2

                           83.9             55.6            83.9          28.3

                           59.7             40.6            59.8          19.2

                           74.3             55.6            74.4          18.8



it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"

it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
MORCS&'&Construction&Noise&'&Mitigated
Reference&Noise&Distance                                   50 feet
Reference&Noise&Level                                    92.8 dBA

                                                                  Additional&
                                                                  Setback&of&   Average&
                                                                 Sources&from& Distance&of&
                                               Distance&to&      Property&Line& Sources& Attenuation&
Sensitive&Receptor                             site&(feet)          (feet)*       (feet)     Factors
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                  60             183           243            6
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                                65              60           125            9
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                   320              60           380         13.5
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th                 260             183           443           12
Berendo&Middle&School&(W.&12th&Street)                     425              60           485         13.5
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                     20              60            80           29
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                     10              60            70            6
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
construction                                               20              60            80           29
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
construction                                               10             200          210             6

Attenuation)assumptions:                                                      Source
'&Hard&ground&surface                                       6             dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&First&row&of&buildings&intevening&between&
construction&site&and&sensitive&receptor                    3             dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Each&subsequent&intervening&structure                   1.5             dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Soft&ground&surface                                     2.5             dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"

Attenuation)assumptions:                                                      Source
'&Installation&of&mufflers                                 3              dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Use&of&sound&barrier&and&blanket                     13'23              dBA Consultant&assumption
'&Avoid&use&of&impact&pile&driver
'&Use&quieter&demolition&methods
                                Maximum&
                                Construction& Existing&
                 Mitigation& Noise&Level&& Ambient&          New&Ambient&&
                 Factors        (dBA)         (dBA,&Leq)     (dBA,&Leq)    Increase
                          16.0          57.1            56.9          60.0            3.1
                          16.0          59.8            57.4          61.8            4.4
                            3.0         58.7            58.0          61.4            3.4
                            3.0         58.8            58.4          61.6            3.2
                            3.0         56.6            55.6          59.1            3.5

                          18.0          41.7           40.6          44.2             3.6

                          N/A            N/A           55.6          N/A              N/A

                          18.0          41.7           40.6          44.2             3.6

                          16.0          58.3           55.6          60.2             4.6


it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"

it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"



it&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
               CONSTRUCTION)NOISE)LEVELS)OVER)KEY)CONSTRUCTION)PHASES

Demolition       Equipment               Reference       Log       Assumption

               Concrete/industrial)saw          76 39810717.06 FTA)reference)level
               Dozer                            85 316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Loader                           85 316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Loader                           85 316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Loader                           85 316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Sum                                 1304721781
                              control                     91.2



Grading          Equipment               Reference       Log       Assumption

               Rubber)tired)loader              85     316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Grader                           85     316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Dozer                            85     316227766 FTA)reference)level
               Sum                                   948683298.1
                               control                      89.8

Construction     Equipment               Reference       Log       Assumption

               Generator)sets                   81 125892541.2 FTA)reference)level
               Crane                            83 199526231.5 FTA)reference)level)for)mobile)crane
               Forklift                         85 316227766 FTA)reference)level)for)loader
               Rubber)tired)loader              85 316227766 Assumes)loader)reference)level
               Welder                           85 316227766 Assumes)loader)reference)level)for)air)compressor
               Welder                           85 316227766 Assumes)loader)reference)level)for)air)compressor
               Welder                           85 316227766 Assumes)loader)reference)level)for)air)compressor
               Sum                                 1906557603
                               control                    92.8
MORCS&'&Construction&Noise&'&Mitigated
Reference&Noise&Distance                                 50 feet
Reference&Noise&Level                                  91.2 dBA

                                                                Additional&
                                                                Setback&of&   Average&                               Maximum&
                                                               Sources&from& Distance&of&                            Construction& Existing&
                                             Distance&to&      Property&Line& Sources& Attenuation& Mitigation& Noise&Level&& Ambient&            New&Ambient&&
Sensitive&Receptor                           site&(feet)          (feet)*       (feet)     Factors      Factors      (dBA)         (dBA,&Leq)     (dBA,&Leq)    Increase
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                60             183           243            6         16.0         55.5            56.9          59.2            2.3
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                              65              60           125            9         16.0         58.2            57.4          60.9            3.5
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                 320              60           380         13.5          3.0         57.1            58.0          60.6            2.6
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th               260             183           443           12          3.0         57.2            58.4          60.9            2.5
Berendo&Middle&School&(W.&12th&Street)                   425              60           485         13.5          3.0         55.0            55.6          58.3            2.7
MORCS&'&Construction&Noise&'&Unmitigated
Reference&Noise&Distance                                      50 feet
Reference&Noise&Level                                       91.2 dBA
                                                                   Additional&
                                                                  Setback&of&
                                                                    Sources&    Average&                   Maximum&
                                                                      from&    Distance&of&               Construction&
                                                      Distance&     Property&   Sources&     Attenuation& Noise&Level&& Existing&Ambient& New&Ambient&&
Sensitive&Receptor                                     (feet)     Line&(feet)*    (feet)       Factors       (dBA)         (dBA,&Leq)      (dBA,&Leq)      Increase
Apartments&at&1110&Berendo                                    60           183           243            6          71.5             56.9            71.6          14.7
Apartments&at&2695&West&11th                                  65            60           125            9          74.2             57.4            74.3          16.9
Apartments&at&1025&Dewey                                     320            60           380         13.5          60.1             58.0            62.2           4.2
Northwest&corner&of&South&Kenmore&and&11th                   260           183           443           12          60.2             58.4            62.4           4.0
Berendo&Middle&School&(W.&12th&Street)                       425            60           485         13.5          58.0             55.6            60.0           4.4
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                       20          60           80            29            58.1             40.6            58.2          17.6
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
demolition&and&grading                                       10          60           70             6            82.3             55.6            82.3          26.7
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(indoor)&
construction                                                 20          60           80            29            58.1             40.6            58.2          17.6
Berendo&Middle&School&campus&(outdoor)&
construction                                                 10         200          210             6            72.7             55.6            72.8          17.2

Attenuation)assumptions:                                                    Source
'&Hard&ground&surface                                         6         dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&First&row&of&buildings&intevening&between&
construction&site&and&sensitive&receptor                       3        dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Each&subsequent&intervening&structure                      1.5        dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"
'&Soft&ground&surface                                        2.5        dBA FTA&"Transit&Noise&and&Vibration&Impact&Assessment"

*&Assumes&average&activity&set&back&1/3&back&on&
property&from&applicable&property&line,&except&
building&construction&activities&that&are&200&feet&
east&of&the&playground&west&of&the&Project&site
MORCS&Construction&Vibration&
Ref=      Reference&vibration&level&(PPV)
RefD=     Reference&distance&for&Reference&vibration&level&(Feet)


           Vibration&PPV
           Ref=              0.089 Based&on&type&of&equipment
           RefD=                25
           D=                  260 Distance&from&equipment&to&sensitive&receptor
           Equip=            0.003

           Annoyance&VdB
           Ref=                 87 Based&on&type&of&equipment
           RefD=                25
           D=                  260 Distance&from&equipment&to&sensitive&receptor
           Equip=               56
MORCS&Mitigated&Construction&Vibration&
Ref=      Reference&vibration&level&(PPV)
RefD=     Reference&distance&for&Reference&vibration&level&(Feet)


           Vibration&PPV
           Ref=              0.076 Based&on&type&of&equipment
           RefD=                25
           D=                   62 Distance&from&equipment&to&sensitive&receptor
           Equip=            0.019

           Annoyance&VdB
           Ref=                 86 Based&on&type&of&equipment
           RefD=                25
           D=                   62 Distance&from&equipment&to&sensitive&receptor
           Equip=               74
      APPENDIX D
Traffic Impact Study
           Traffic Impact Study for
Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)
               2670 11th Street
            Los Angeles, California




                May 7, 2014




                                                         Prepared for:

                                        YPI Charter Schools, Inc.
                         c/o Pacific Charter School Development
                                       811 West 7th Street, Suite 310
                                             Los Angeles, CA 90017
                                                     (310) 923-6125


                                                         Prepared by:




                              1100 Corporate Center Drive, Suite 201
                                     Monterey Park, California 91754
                                                     (323) 260-4703


                                                              JB31104
Table of Contents
1. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................................... 1 
   1.1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................................................................................................................1 
   1.2 PROJECT STUDY AREA ..............................................................................................................................................................1 
   1.3 STUDY SCENARIOS ....................................................................................................................................................................4 
   1.4 ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY ......................................................................................................................................................4 
   1.5 TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYNCHRONIZATION .....................................................................................................................................6 
   1.6 SIGNIFICANT TRAFFIC IMPACTS ................................................................................................................................................6 
2. EXISTING CONDITIONS ........................................................................................................................ 7 
   2.1 EXISTING ROADWAY SYSTEM ..................................................................................................................................................7 
   2.2 EXISTING TRANSIT SERVICE ......................................................................................................................................................9 
   2.3 EXISTING INTERSECTION LEVELS OF SERVICE ..........................................................................................................................9 
3. PROJECT TRAFFIC ................................................................................................................................. 13 
   3.1 PROJECT TRIP GENERATION ................................................................................................................................................. 13 
   3.2 PROJECT TRIP DISTRIBUTION ................................................................................................................................................ 14 
   3.3 PROJECT TRIP ASSIGNMENT .................................................................................................................................................. 14 
4. EXISTING WITH-PROJECT CONDITIONS ...................................................................................... 18 
5. FUTURE 2016 WITHOUT-PROJECT CONDITIONS ........................................................................ 21 
   5.1 AMBIENT GROWTH................................................................................................................................................................ 21 
   5.2 AREA/CUMULATIVE PROJECTS ............................................................................................................................................... 21 
   5.3 FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT INTERSECTION LEVELS OF SERVICE ....................................................................................... 26 
6. FUTURE 2016 WITH-PROJECT CONDITIONS ................................................................................. 29 
7. PROJECT TRAFFIC IMPACTS .............................................................................................................. 32 
   7.1 DETERMINATION OF TRAFFIC IMPACTS ................................................................................................................................ 32 
   7.2 PROJECT TRAFFIC IMPACTS – EXISTING WITH PROJECT CONDITIONS ............................................................................ 32 
   7.3 PROJECT TRAFFIC IMPACTS – FUTURE WITH PROJECT CONDITIONS................................................................................ 33 
   7.4 PROJECT PEDESTRIAN ACCESS .............................................................................................................................................. 33 
   7.5 PROJECT CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC ..................................................................................................................................... 34 
8. SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS........................................................................................................... 36 
   8.1 SIGNAL WARRANT CRITERIA ................................................................................................................................................ 36 
   8.2. SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS CONCLUSIONS.................................................................................................................... 36 
9. CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PLAN CONFORMANCE .............................................................. 37 
10. ANALYSIS SUMMARY AND PROJECT RECOMMENDATIONS................................................... 38 
   10.1 ANALYSIS SUMMARY............................................................................................................................................................. 38 
   10.2 VEHICLE AND PEDESTRIAN ACCESS CIRCULATION PLAN ................................................................................................ 39 




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                                                                            Page i
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                                                                          JB31104
May 7, 2014
List of Figures
FIGURE 1- PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN                                                        2 
FIGURE 2 - STUDY INTERSECTION LOCATIONS                                                3 
FIGURE 3 - EXISTING INTERSECTION GEOMETRY                                              8 
FIGURE 4 - EXISTING TRANSIT LINES                                                     10 
FIGURE 5 - EXISTING WEEKDAY AM PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES                              11 
FIGURE 6 - EXISTING WEEKDAY PM PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES                              12 
FIGURE 7 - PROJECT TRIP DISTRIBUTION                                                  15 
FIGURE 8 - WEEKDAY AM PEAK HOUR TRIP ASSIGNMENT – NET PROJECT TRAFFIC                 16 
FIGURE 9 - WEEKDAY PM PEAK HOUR TRIP ASSIGNMENT – NET PROJECT TRAFFIC                 17 
FIGURE 10 - EXISTING WITH PROJECT AM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES                           19 
FIGURE 11 - EXISTING WITH PROJECT PM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES                           20 
FIGURE 12 - LOCATION OF RELATED PROJECTS                                              23 
FIGURE 13 – RELATED PROJECT AM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES                                 24 
FIGURE 14 - RELATED PROJECT PM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES                                 25 
FIGURE 15 - FUTURE 2016 WITHOUT PROJECT – WEEKDAY AM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES           27 
FIGURE 16 - FUTURE 2016 WITHOUT PROJECT– WEEKDAY PM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES            28 
FIGURE 17 - FUTURE 2016 WITH PROJECT – WEEKDAY AM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES              30 
FIGURE 18 - FUTURE 2016 WITH PROJECT – WEEKDAY PM PEAK-HOUR TURN VOLUMES              31 
FIGURE 19 – POTENTIAL CONSTRUCTION ROUTES                                             35 


List of Tables
TABLE 1- LEVEL-OF-SERVICE DEFINITIONS                                                  6 
TABLE 2 – STUDY AREA ROADWAY DESCRIPTION                                               7 
TABLE 3 – TRANSIT SERVICE SUMMARY                                                      9 
TABLE 4 – STUDY INTERSECTION OPERATIONS - EXISTING CONDITIONS                          9 
TABLE 5 – PROJECT TRIP GENERATION                                                     13 
TABLE 6 – STUDY INTERSECTION OPERATIONS – EXISTING WITH PROJECT CONDITIONS            18 
TABLE 7 – AREA/CUMULATIVE PROJECTS TRIP GENERATION                                    21 
TABLE 8 – STUDY INTERSECTION OPERATIONS – FUTURE (YEAR 2016) WITHOUT PROJECT
          CONDITIONS                                                                  26 
TABLE 9 – STUDY INTERSECTION OPERATIONS – FUTURE (YEAR 2016) WITH PROJECT
          CONDITIONS                                                                  29 
TABLE 10 – ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACTS BASED ON EXISTING CONDITIONS                 32 
TABLE 11 – ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACTS BASED ON FUTURE CONDITIONS (YEAR 2016)       33 



Appendices
APPENDIX A – PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH LADOT
APPENDIX B – TRAFFIC COUNTS
APPENDIX C – LADOT CMA CALCULATION WORKSHEETS
APPENDIX D – PEDESTRIAN ROUTES TO BERENDO MIDDLE SCHOOL
APPENDIX E – MUTCD PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT WORKSHEETS
APPENDIX F – PROJECT SITE FIGURE WITH QUEUED VEHICLES




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                            Page ii
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)             JB31104
May 7, 2014
1. Introduction

This study report identifies the potential traffic impacts associated with a proposed charter middle
school facility, which will be located at 2670 West 11th Street within the City of Los Angeles.

Prior to the start of the study, KOA Corporation (KOA) coordinated with staff from the Los Angeles
Department of Transportation (LADOT) to obtain consensus on the traffic scope, methodology and
assumptions. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was prepared and reviewed by LADOT staff. A
copy of the final MOU is provided in Appendix A.

1.1 Project Description

The project site is located on the northeastern portion of the existing Berendo Middle School. The
proposed development consists of construction of a new two-story, 32,000 square-foot school building
with classrooms, administration offices, a multipurpose room, and a lunch shelter. The project will also
include a playfield, staff/visitor parking lot, and a student pick-up/drop-off area along 11th Street. The
existing school will retain a separate pick-up/drop-off area on Berendo Street.

The proposed middle school, Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS), would provide 450
seats for middle school students (grades 6 to 8) by a planned opening year of 2016. This project is
located on the northeastern portion of the existing Berendo Middle School.

Berendo Middle School currently enrolls about 1,200 students in 6th to 8th grades on a single track
schedule. In addition, MORCS has used space on the campus for the 2011 to 2013 school years, and
approximately 300 students in 6th to 8th grades are currently accommodated in Berendo Middle School
facilities. The project, therefore, will allow for an increase in enrollment within the MORCS program by
150 student seats.

The proposed MORCS project encompasses four areas of the existing middle school campus, identified
as Areas A through D. The four areas total approximately 2.36 acres in size and are bordered by South
Berendo Street to the east, West 11th Street to the north, and Berendo Middle School to the west and
south. The preliminary site plan is provided on Figure 1.

1.2 Project Study Area

The project study area, as defined through consultation with LADOT staff, includes the following five
signalized study intersections:

    1.   Berendo Street & Olympic Boulevard
    2.   Vermont Avenue & Olympic Boulevard
    3.   Normandie Avenue & 11th Street
    4.   Vermont Avenue & 11th Street
    5.   Vermont Avenue & Pico Boulevard

Figure 2 illustrates the study intersection locations.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 1
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                              JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                 1                   2




              3                                                                     4




                                                                                    VERMONT AVE
                                                                                    5




            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                          N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                      Not to Scale




                                 Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study       Figure 1
                                                                                     Conceptual Project Site Plan
                                                                 1                   2




              3                                                                     4




                                                                                     VERMONT AVE
                                                                                    5




            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                             N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                         Not to Scale




                                 Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study          Figure 2
                                                                                        Study Intersection Locations
                                                                                              1. Introduction


1.3 Study Scenarios

Project traffic impacts were analyzed for the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak-hour traffic periods at the
study intersections. The traffic analysis included the following traffic scenarios:

       Existing Conditions (year 2014)
       Existing with Project (year 2014)
       Future without Project (year 2016)
       Future with Project (year 2016)


1.4 Analysis Methodology

The proposed Project site is located within the City of Los Angeles. KOA coordinated with LADOT at
the start of this study to achieve consensus on assumptions such as study intersections, trip generation
and trip distribution.

The general methodology and assumptions contained in this report are based on the LADOT June 2013
Traffic Study Policies and Procedures document of June 2013. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
that included all major traffic study assumptions was submitted to LADOT. An approved MOU
executed on April 17, 2014 was received from LADOT.

The list of study intersections is finalized through this process, as are the trip generation and trip
distribution assumptions. The following text describes the methodology for this report as defined in the
MOU document.

Existing Condition

Fieldwork within the project study area was undertaken to identify the condition of key study area
roadways, to identify traffic control and approach lane configuration at each study intersection, and to
identify the locations of on-street parking and transit stops.

Traffic counts (including vehicle classifications, bicycles, and pedestrians) were collected in December
2013. New manual intersection turn movement counts were applied to the analysis of existing 2014
traffic conditions at the study intersections. The traffic volume data were factored based on vehicle
classification type. Truck volumes were factored by 2.5 and buses were factored by 1.5 to represent the
equivalent of one standard vehicle. The traffic count summaries are provided in Appendix C of this
report. The existing levels of service at the study intersections are discussed in Section 2 of this report.

Project Trip Generation and Distribution

The applied trip generation rates for Project trips were based on those defined within Trip Generation
(9th Edition), published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE). The detailed methodology
utilized for the project trip generation and distribution calculations is discussed in Section 3 of this
report.



Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                Page 4
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                             1. Introduction

Existing with-Project Conditions

Based on the traffic that is projected for the proposed Project and the existing traffic volumes, a
separate existing with-Project conditions scenario was analyzed. This scenario was analyzed in order to
comply with rulings in the Sunnyvale and Expo Line California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) court
cases. The levels of service for existing with-Project conditions at the study intersections are discussed
in Section 4 of this report.

Future without-Project Conditions

Typically, regional traffic growth that would affect operations at the study intersections by the
anticipated project opening year is added to the study area roadways by applying an ambient/background
traffic growth rate to the existing traffic volumes. The opening year of the proposed Project is 2016.
Therefore, an annual traffic growth rate of 1% per year was assumed for the analysis of future
conditions.

In addition, traffic from area/cumulative projects (approved and pending developments) was included as
part of the analysis for future year-2016 conditions. KOA obtained information from LADOT pertaining
to projects that would add measurable volumes to the study intersections.

The levels of service for the future without-Project conditions scenario are discussed in Section 5 of this
report.

Future with-Project Conditions

Based on the future traffic volumes including traffic from ambient growth, area/related projects and the
proposed project, the future with-Project conditions were determined and analyzed. The levels of
service for the future with-Project conditions scenario are discussed in Section 6 of this report.

Level-of-Service Methodology

For analysis of Level of Service (LOS) at signalized intersections, LADOT has designated the Circular
212 Planning methodology as the desired tool. The concept of roadway level of service under the
Circular 212 method is calculated as the volume of vehicles that pass through the facility divided by the
capacity of that facility. A facility is “at capacity” (V/C of 1.00 or greater) when extreme congestion
occurs. This volume/capacity ratio value is a function of hourly volumes, signal phasing, and approach
lane configuration on each leg of the intersection.

Level of service (LOS) values range from LOS A to LOS F. LOS A indicates excellent operating
conditions with little delay to motorists, whereas LOS F represents congested conditions with excessive
vehicle delay. LOS E is typically defined as the operating “capacity” of a roadway. Table 1 defines the
level of service criteria applied to the study intersections.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                               Page 5
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                                                    1. Introduction

                                       Table 1- Level-of-Service Definitions
                                                                                                         Signalized
         LOS                                      Interpretation                                        Intersection
                                                                                                         Volume to
                                                                                                          Capacity
                                                                                                        Ratio (CMA)
                   Excellent operation. All approaches to the intersection appear quite open,
           A       turning movements are easily made, and nearly all drivers find freedom of             0.000 - 0.600
                   operation.
                   Very good operation. Many drivers begin to feel somewhat restricted within
           B       platoons of vehicles. This represents stable flow. An approach to an                  0.601 - 0.700
                   intersection may occasionally be fully utilized and traffic queues start to form.
                   Good operation. Occasionally backups may develop behind turning vehicles.
           C                                                                                             0.701 - 0.800
                   Most drivers feel somewhat restricted.
                   Fair operation. There are no long-standing traffic queues. This level is typically
           D                                                                                             0.801 - 0.900
                   associated with design practice for peak periods.
                   Poor operation. Some long standing vehicular queues develop on critical
           E                                                                                             0.901 - 1.000
                   approaches.
                   Forced flow.      Represents jammed conditions.           Backups from locations
                   downstream or on the cross street may restrict or prevent movements of
           F       vehicles out of the intersection approach lanes; therefore, volumes carried are       Over 1.000
                   not predictable. Potential for stop and go type traffic flow.
        Source: Highway Capacity Manual, Special Report 209, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., 2000 and
        Interim Materials on Highway Capacity, NCHRP Circular 212, 1982



1.5 Traffic Signal Synchronization

Automated Traffic Surveillance and Control (ATSAC) is a computer-based traffic signal control system
whereby engineers monitor traffic conditions and system performance, selects appropriate signal timing
(control) strategies, and performs equipment diagnostics and alert functions. Sensors in the street detect
the passage of vehicles, vehicle speed, and the level of congestion. This information is received on a
second-by-second (real-time) basis and is analyzed on a minute-by-minute basis at the ATSAC
Operations Center to determine if better traffic flow can be achieved by changing the signal timing. If
required, the signal timing is either automatically changed by the ATSAC computers or manually
changed by the operator using communication lines that connect the ATSAC Center with each traffic
signal. To supplement the information from electronic detectors, closed-circuit television (CCTV)
surveillance equipment has been and continues to be installed at critical locations throughout the City.

For capacity analysis, LADOT policies suggest a 0.07 reduction in volume-to-capacity ratio with the
implementation of ATSAC. This reduction represents field-measured benefits in flow and capacity
increase by operation of this program. All of the study intersections are operated with ATSAC.


1.6 Significant Traffic Impacts

As defined by the LADOT traffic study guidelines, significant impacts of a proposed project on a facility
must be mitigated to a level of insignificance, where feasible. Potential significant traffic impacts at the
study intersections due to the proposed Project are discussed in Section 7 of this report.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                      Page 6
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                      JB31104
May 7, 2014
2. Existing Conditions
This section describes the existing conditions within the study area, in terms of roadway facilities and
operating conditions.

2.1 Existing Roadway System

Fieldwork within the Project study area was undertaken to identify traffic control and approach lane
configuration at each study intersection, and to identify the locations of on-street parking availability and
locations of transit stops. Figure 3 illustrates the existing study intersection approach geometries.

The discussion presented here is limited to specific roadways that traverse the study intersections and
serve the project site. The primary roadways within the study area are described below in Table 2.

                                       Table 2 – Study Area Roadway Description

                                                                                                                                           Posted
                                                           # Lanes       Median            Parking Restrictions             General
     Segment               From           To                                                                                               Speed
                                                                          Type                                             Land Use
                                                    NB / EB SB / WB                    NB / WB              SB / EB                        Limit
Normandie Avenue        Olympic Blvd    Pico Blvd    1 / 2.     1 / 2.     ST       No Stopping 7-9AM No Stopping 4-7PM    Residential       30
                                                                                                                           Residential /
Berendo Street          Olympic Blvd    Pico Blvd      1             1     NS           Permitted          Permitted                         -
                                                                                                                           Institutional

                                                                                    No Stopping 7-9AM No Stopping 7-9AM
Vermont Avenue          Olympic Blvd    Pico Blvd      2             2   2LT / ST   & 4-7PM / One Hr    & 4-7PM / One Hr   Commercial        35
                                                                                      Pkg 9AM-4PM         Pkg 9A-4PM

                                                                                    No Stopping 7-9AM    No Stopping 7-
Olympic Boulevard      Normandie Ave Vermont Ave     2 / 3.     2 / 3.     ST                                              Commercial        35
                                                                                        & 3-7PM          10AM & 3-7PM
11th Street            Normandie Ave Vermont Ave       1             1     ST           Permitted          Permitted       Residential       -
                                                                                    No Stopping 4-6PM No Stopping 7-9AM
Pico Boulevard         Normandie Ave Vermont Ave       2             2     ST       / One Hr Pkg 8AM- / One Hr Pkg 9AM-    Commercial        35
                                                                                          4PM                 6PM

DY - Double Yellow
2LT - Dual Left Turn
ST - Striped
NS - Not Striped




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                                     Page 7
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                                      JB31104
May 7, 2014
               1                            2                                          3
                    *
                                                                                           PM




                                                                                                                *
                                                                                           AM
                         S                              S                                           S
                                                                                                                AM




                                                                                           *
                             *                                                                                  PM




                                                                          1                       2




              3                                                                                   4




                                                                                                  VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                  5




                                            4                                          5




                                                       S                                          S




            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                         N

 #    Study Intersections

 S
XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
      Signalized Intersection
      Intersection Lane Geometry   Note:                                                                             Not to Scale
                                   * A de facto right-turn lane was assumed due to a wide curb lane.


                                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                    Figure 3
                                                                                                Existing Intersection Geometry
                                                                                                            2. Existing Conditions


2.2 Existing Transit Service

Table 3 provides a description of the transit lines that traverse the study area. The existing transit lines
are illustrated on Figure 4.

                                             Table 3 – Transit Service Summary

     Agency                    Line                From                To                      Via                Peak Frequency
      Metro                     28              Century City       Los Angeles         Olympic Boulevard           6 - 15 Minutes
      Metro                     30             West Hollywood    East Los Angeles        Pico Boulevard            6 - 12 Minutes
      Metro                    204                 Athens          Hollywood             Vermont Avenue            6 - 10 Minutes
      Metro                    206                 Athens          Hollywood           Normandie Avenue            8 - 16 Minutes
      Metro                    330             West Hollywood    East Los Angeles        Pico Boulevard            20 - 30 Minutes
    Metro Rapid                728              Century City       Los Angeles         Olympic Boulevard           10 - 12 Minutes
    Metro Rapid                754                 Athens          Hollywood             Vermont Avenue            5 - 12 Minutes
 LADOT Commuter                                                  Downtown Los
                               534            West Los Angeles                         Olympic Boulevard           20 - 40 Minutes
      Express                                                        Angeles
                         Wilshire Center /                                          Vermont Avenue / Olympic
   LADOT DASH                                     Montclair        Los Angeles                                       20 Minutes
                            Koreatown                                               Boulevard / Catalina Street



2.3 Existing Intersection Levels of Service

The existing weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hour turn movement volumes are provided on Figures 5 and 6,
respectively. Based on the existing traffic volumes and the intersection geometries depicted on Figure 3,
volume-to-capacity ratios and corresponding levels of service (LOS) were determined for the five study
intersections during the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hours. The LADOT Critical Movement Analysis
(CMA) calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix C of this report.

Table 4 summarizes the volume/capacity ratios and LOS values. As indicated by the data within this
table, all of the study intersections are currently operating at good levels of service (LOS D or better)
during the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hours. The Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection is
the only intersection operating at LOS D during both the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hours.

                        Table 4 – Study Intersection Operations - Existing Conditions
                                                           AM Peak          PM Peak
                            Study Intersections
                                                          V/C      LOS     V/C     LOS
                    1     Berendo St & Olympic Blvd                      0.442       A         0.507          A
                    2     Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd                     0.898       D         0.865          D
                    3     Normandie ave & 11th St                        0.462       A         0.617          B
                    4     Vermont Ave & 11th St                          0.593       A         0.544          A
                    5     Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd                        0.782       C         0.724          C
                  LOS = Level of Service
                  V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio


Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                       Page 9
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                       JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                     VERMONT AVE




            LEGEND

             LEGEND
        Project Location
        Metro 28
      Project
        Metro Location
              30/330                                                                                              N
         Metro 204
 #    Study  Intersections
         Metro 206
         Metro Rapid 728
XXX   Intersection
         Metro RapidTurn
                     754 Volume
         CE 534
         DASH WCK                                                                                             Not to Scale




                                  Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study              Figure 4
                                                                                                   Existing Transit Lines
                            44                                           1081                                         653
                       20        25                                 85          116                              19                   15


                  24                  29                     82                       49                   16                              50
              1673          1              1379           1533            2                1319           54           3                        51
                  39                  37                     108                      63                   29                              22

                       63        34                                108          65                               19                   16
                            72                                           1210                                         975




                                                                                                  1                     2




              3                                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                        VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                        5




                                                                         1141                                         1157
                                                                    39          40                               71                   72


                                                             59                       69                   77                              71
                                                           126            4                101           862           5                        701
                                                             72                       64                   120                             55

                                                                    44          58                               64                   47
                                                                         1325                                         1272

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                          N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                      Not to Scale




                                                  Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                      Figure 5
                                                                                                  Existing Weekday AM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                             75                                           920                                          894
                       29         44                                116          115                              30                   28


                  39                   41                     157                      94                   38                              81
              1724           1              1395           1596            2                1249          100           3                        118
                  50                   37                     87                       81                   29                              28

                       112        45                                125          84                               17                   31
                             81                                           1053                                         771




                                                                                                   1                     2




              3                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                         VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                         5




                                                                          1043                                         1082
                                                                    44           30                               75                   71


                                                              44                       67                   79                              104
                                                            122            4                128           686           5                        709
                                                              76                       61                   118                             59

                                                                    75           73                               67                   67
                                                                          1190                                         1201

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                           N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                       Not to Scale




                                                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                      Figure 6
                                                                                                   Existing Weekday PM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
3. Project Traffic
This section defines the traffic that would be generated by the proposed Project in a three-step process
including trip generation, trip distribution and trip assignment.

3.1 Project Trip Generation

The proposed Project will provide 450 seats for middle school students (6th to 8th grades) located on
the northeastern portion of the existing Berendo Middle School. The Project currently enrolls 300
students in facilities within the existing campus. The Project, therefore, will allow for an increase in
enrollment within the MORCS program by 150 student seats.

Traffic volumes that are expected to be generated by the Project during the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak
hours and daily periods were estimated based on trip rates defined in Trip Generation (9th Edition). Public
school rates were applied to the proposed charter school use, based on the distribution of waiting list
students, as analyzed for the approved MOU. The trip rates and the associated traffic generation
forecast for the proposed project are provided in Table 5.

                                                Table 5 – Project Trip Generation
                                                                  Daily           AM Peak                 PM Peak
          Land Use                 Intensity       Units
                                                                  Total   Total     In      Out   Total     In      Out
Trip Generation Rates
Middle School                           -         students        1.62    0.54     55%      45%   0.16      49%     51%
Trip Generation Estimates
Middle School                         150         students        243      81       45      36     24       12       12
                                                 Subtotal         243      81       45      36     24       12       12
Net Total                                                         243      81       45      36     24       12       12
Trip generation rates source: ITE Trip Generation (9th Edition)




The proposed new middle school facility is projected to generate approximately 243 weekday daily trips,
including 81 trips during the a.m. peak hour and 24 trips during the p.m. peak hour.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                              Page 13
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                           3. Project Traffic

3.2 Project Trip Distribution

Trip distribution is the process of assigning the directions from which traffic will access a project site.
Trip distribution is dependent upon the land use characteristics of the project, the local roadway
network, and the general locations of other land uses to which project trips would originate or
terminate.

Based on consultation with LADOT staff during development of the MOU, a trip distribution pattern
was developed specifically for this project based on existing student zip codes. Figure 7 illustrates the
intersection trip distribution percentages that were applied to the Project trip generation.

3.3 Project Trip Assignment

Based on the trip generation and distribution assumptions described above, Project traffic was assigned
to the roadway system based on site driveway locations, the pick-up/drop-off location, and the roadways
that would likely be used to access the regional highway system.

Figures 8 and 9 illustrate the assigned project trips for the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hours,
respectively.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 14
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                JB31104
May 7, 2014
                             0%                                      0%                                 0%
                       10%         0%                          20%         0%                     1%                    12%


                  0%                    0%                0%                    0%           0%                               0%
                0%           1           37%            9%           2            17%       2%          3                      0%
                  0%                    0%                0%                    0%           0%                               0%

                       7%          9%                          0%          9%                     1%                    6%
                             10%                                     20%                                6%




                                                                                        1                2




              3                                                                                          4




                                                                                                          VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                         5




                                                                     0%                                 10%
                                                               0%          0%                     3%                    8%


                                                         29%                    0%           0%                               0%
                                                       15%           4            0%        0%          5                      8%
                                                         17%                    15%          0%                               0%

                                                               0%          0%                     10%                   0%
                                                                     0%                                 0%

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                               N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                           Not to Scale




                                               Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                              Figure 7
                                                                                                                              Project Trip Distribution
                              0                                      0                                 0
                          5       0                              9       0                         0                     5


                      0               0                      0               0                 0                             0
                  0           1           17             3           2           8         1           3                         0
                      0               0                      0               0                 0                             0

                          3       3                              0       3                         0                     3
                              4                                      7                                 2




                                                                                     1                     2




              3                                                                                        4




                                                                                                           VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                       5




                                                                     0                                 4
                                                                 0       0                         1                     3


                                                          10                 0                 0                             0
                                                         5           4           0         0           5                         4
                                                             6               7                 0                             0

                                                                 0       0                         5                     0
                                                                     0                                 0

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                         N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                     Not to Scale




                                               Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                        Figure 8
                                                                     Weekday AM Peak Hour Trip Assignment - Net Project Traffic
                              0                                     0                                 0
                          1       0                             2       0                         0                     1


                      0               0                     0               0                 0                             0
                  0           1           4             1           2           2         0           3                         0
                      0               0                     0               0                 0                             0

                          1       1                             0       1                         0                     1
                              1                                     2                                 1




                                                                                    1                     2




              3                                                                                       4




                                                                                                          VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                      5




                                                                    0                                 1
                                                                0       0                         0                     1


                                                            3               0                 0                             0
                                                        2           4           0         0           5                         1
                                                            2               2                 0                             0

                                                                0       0                         1                     0
                                                                    0                                 0

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                        N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                    Not to Scale




                                              Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                        Figure 9
                                                                    Weekday PM Peak Hour Trip Assignment - Net Project Traffic
4. Existing with-Project Conditions
This section documents existing traffic conditions at the study intersections with the addition of project-
generated traffic. This scenario was analyzed in order to comply with rulings in the Sunnyvale and Expo
Line CEQA court cases.

Traffic volumes for these conditions were derived by adding the net project trips to the existing traffic
volumes. The existing with-Project traffic volumes are illustrated on Figure 10 (a.m. peak hour) and
Figure 11 (p.m. peak hour).

Table 6 summarizes the resulting V/C and LOS values at the study intersections for the existing with
Project conditions. The LADOT Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) calculation worksheets are
provided in Appendix C of this report.

                             Table 6 – Study Intersection Operations –
                                  Existing With Project Conditions
                                                        AM Peak        PM Peak
                         Study Intersections
                                                       V/C    LOS     V/C   LOS
                1    Berendo St & Olympic Blvd            0.447      A      0.508       A
                2    Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd           0.901      E      0.865       D
                3    Normandie ave & 11th St              0.465      A      0.619       B
                4    Vermont Ave & 11th St                0.600      A      0.546       A
                5    Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd              0.785      C      0.725       C
              LOS = Level of Service
              V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio


Four of the study intersections are projected to operate at a good level of service (LOS D or better)
under existing with-Project conditions during the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hours. The Vermont
Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection is projected to be the only intersection to degrade in
operations from LOS D to LOS E with Project traffic, which would occur during the weekday a.m. peak
hour.

Determinations of significant traffic impacts created by Project traffic are discussed in Section 7 of this
report.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                             Page 18
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
                            49                                           1090                                            653
                       20        25                                 85          116                                 19                   20


                  28                  29                     82                       49                       16                             50
              1673          1              1379           1533            2                1327              54           3                        51
                  40                  45                     108                      63                       29                             22

                       63        34                                108          71                                  19                   19
                            72                                           1217                                            979




                                                                                                    1                      2




              3                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                           VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                           5




                                                                         1141                                            1160
                                                                    48          40                                  71                   74


                                                             59                       69                       77                             75
                                                           129            4                108              863           5                        701
                                                             72                       64                      121                             55

                                                                    52          61                                  64                   47
                                                                         1338                                            1277

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                             N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                         Not to Scale




                                                  Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                       Figure 10
                                                                                                 Existing with Project - AM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                             76                                           922                                              894
                       29         44                                116          115                                  30                   29


                  40                   41                     157                      94                       38                              81
              1724           1              1395           1596            2                1251              100           3                        118
                  50                   39                     87                       81                       29                              28

                       112        45                                125          86                                   17                   32
                             81                                           1055                                             772




                                                                                                     1                       2




              3                                                                                                              4




                                                                                                                             VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                             5




                                                                          1043                                             1083
                                                                     46          30                                   75                   72


                                                              44                       67                       79                              105
                                                            123            4                130               686           5                        709
                                                              76                       61                       118                             59

                                                                     77          74                                   67                   67
                                                                          1194                                             1202

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                               N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                           Not to Scale




                                                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                        Figure 11
                                                                                                  Existing with Project - PM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
5. Future 2016 without-Project Conditions
This section provides an analysis of future traffic conditions in the study area with ambient growth and
area/cumulative projects added but without the proposed Project. The year 2016 was selected for
analysis based on the anticipated completion date of the Project.

5.1 Ambient Growth

For the analysis of background traffic for year 2016, an annual traffic growth factor of one percent was
utilized to provide for increases in traffic from the existing (2014) traffic volumes. This growth rate was
included in the approved MOU.

To apply this ambient growth rate to the existing traffic volumes, a factor of 1.02 was utilized. This
factor simulates a two percent increase over the two-year period between existing (2014) and future
(2016) conditions.

5.2 Area/Cumulative Projects

Based on a review of the area project list provided by LADOT Development Review, 37 area projects in
the City of Los Angeles were included in the traffic analysis. These projects are all located within an
approximate one-mile radius from the Project site.

Figure 12 illustrates the locations of the area projects, and Table 7 provides the area project trip
generation calculations, by defined zones that were used to conglomerate the projects into trip
generation points within the roadway network.

                                         Table 7 – Area/Cumulative Projects Trip Generation
                                                                                                                                   AM Peak Hour                 PM Peak Hour
 ID                 Project Title                 Address                          Land Use    Size    Unit        Daily    Total        In       Out   Total         In       Out
                                                                 Condominiums                  378     DU
 1    Mixed Use                          3670 W Wilshire Blvd                                                      2,480    197          55       142   220          144       76
                                                                 Retail                        8.000   KSF
                                                                 Condominiums                  160     DU
 2    Mixed Use (Wilshire Coronado)      2525 Wilshire Blvd                                                        1,160     76          16       60     97           61       36
                                                                 Retail                        7.500   KSF
                                                                 Condominiums                  189     DU
 3    Mixed Use                          3033 W Wilshire Blvd                                                       816      61          12       49     74           45       29
                                                                 Retail                        5.540   KSF
 4    Shopping Center                    3060 W Olympic Blvd     Retail                       109.006 KSF          4,134     86          60       26    360          169       191
                                                                 Hotel                          80     Rooms
                                                                 Hotel Condo                   112     Units
 5    Wilshire Parkview                  2950 W 6th St           Condominiums                  165     Units       2,628    163          78       85    206          121       85
                                                                 Retail                        7.500   KSF
                                                                 Restaurant                    13.00   KSF
                                                                 Condominiums                  300     DU
 6    Mixed Use                          805 S Catalina St                                                         1,935    161         137       24    167          110       57
                                                                 Retail                        5.000   KSF
                                                                                                       Fueling
 7    Gas Station / Mini Market Expansion 1600 W Olympic Blvd    Gas Station                     8                 1,302     81          40       41    107           53       54
                                                                                                       Positions
                                                                 Condominiums                   32     DU
 8    Mixed Use                          820 S Hoover St                                                            414      22          7        15     32           18       14
                                                                 Retail                        4.500   KSF
 9    Residential                        2929 W Leeward Ave      Apartments                    125     DU           692      32          11       21     72           48       24
                                                                 Condominiums                  169     DU
                                                                 Hotel                          57     Rooms
 10   Mixed Use (Condo Hotel)            3240 Wilshire Blvd                                                        1,523     93          28       65    126           80       46
                                                                 Quality Restaurant            4.500   KSF
                                                                 Retail                        1.700   KSF
                                                                 Apartments                     37     DU
 11   Affordable Housing & Assisted Living 2924 W 8th St                                                            416      23          6        17     28           18       10
                                                                 Assisted Living                48     DU
                                                                 Apartments                      7     DU
 12   Mixed Use (Condo Hotel)            635 Catalina St         Hotel                          75     Rooms        643      39          21       18     50           27       23
                                                                 Quality Restaurant            1.547   KSF
 13   Oak Village Residence Project      902 W Washington Blvd   Condominiums                  142     DU           482      27          2        25     51           35       16
 14   Laborers Local 300 Headquarters    2005 W Pico Blvd        Office                       30.300 KSF            224      32          28        4     30           5        25
                                                                 Apartments                    133     DU
 15   Southwestern Law School Expansion 3050 W Wilshire Blvd     School                       43.400 KSF           -1,337    -51        -35       -16    -97         -45       -52
                                                                 Lecture Hall                  450     Seats




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                                                                     Page 21
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                                                                      JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                                                             5. Future 2016 without-Project Conditions


                                          Table 7 – Related Project Trip Generation (Continued)

                                                                                                                                               AM Peak Hour                 PM Peak Hour
 ID                 Project Title                    Address                          Land Use                Size   Unit      Daily    Total        In       Out   Total         In       Out
                                                                     Office                                  55.380 KSF
 16   Wilshire Temple Master Plan            3663 W Wilshire Blvd    Nursery School                           216    Seats      825     138          94       44     23           20        3
                                                                     Elementary School                        420    Seats
                                                                     Retail                                  10.000 KSF
 17   South LA Redevelopment 4B              1982 W Adams Blvd                                                                  457      39          34        5     52           9        43
                                                                     Office                                  22.000 KSF
 18   Residential & Public Parking Project   619 S Westlake Ave      Apartments                                52    DU         254      20          3        17     24           16        8
 19   West Adams Office                      1999 W Adams Blvd       Office                                  75.000 KSF         826     116         102       14     112          19       93
      PCSD - Pacific Charter Elementary
 20                                          1700 W Pico Blvd        School                                   450    Seats      492     195         106       89     60           31       29
      School
 21   Chuck E Cheese                         2706 W Wilshire Blvd    Restaurant                              16.452 KSF        1,002      9          6         3     83           51       32
      Charter School Relocation (Camino
 22                                          3400 W 3RD ST           Elementary School K-8                    696    Seats      764     266         146       120    88           43       45
      Nuevo)
 23   15th St Charter School                 2755 W 15TH ST          Middle School                            300    Seats      486     123          67       56     48           24       24
 24   Health Club                            3470 W Wilshire Blvd    Health Club                             20.178 KSF         231      -7         -13        6     21           22       -1

                                                                     Stadium                                 76,250 Seats
      Convention Center Modernization &                              Event Center - Rentable Exhibition Space 143.500 KSF
 25                                          1110 W 11th St                                                                    19,460    n/a        n/a       n/a   10,002      9,777      225
      Farmers Field                                                  Event Center - Meeting Room            102,150 KSF
                                                                     Weekday Sold-Out NFL game                  -    -

 26   Berendo Apartments                     688 S Berendo St        Apartments                               136    DU         678      52          10       42     63           41       22
 27   Apartments                             3869 W Wilshire Blvd    Apartments                                84    DU         538      39          8        31     55           36       19
 28   Apartments                             680 S Berendo St        Apartments                               177    DU        1,000     75          15       60     94           62       32
 29   Apartments                             685 S New Hampshire Ave Apartments                               177    DU        1,000     76          15       61     93           61       32
                                                                     Apartments                               218    DU
 30   Mixed Use (Valencia Project)           1501 W Wilshire Blvd    Retail                                  6.000   KSF       1,163      7         -11       18     61           38       23
                                                                     Restaurant                              1.500   KSF
 31   Fedora Street Hotel                    1020 S Fedora St        Hotel                                     86    Rooms      616      42          28       14     44           23       21
                                                                     Apartments                                94    DU
 32   Mixed Use                              1329 W 7th St                                                                      662      53          16       37     61           39       22
                                                                     High-Turnover Restaurant                2.000   KSF
 33   Residential                            3640 W Wilshire Blvd    Apartments                               209    DU        1,182     90          18       72     113          73       40
 34   Church                                 968 S Berendo St        Church                                  85.308 KSF         535      31          23        8     12           3         9
 35   Hotel                                  1700 W Olympic Blvd     Hotel                                    160    Rooms     1,157     76          44       32     87           45       42
                                                                     Apartments                                79    DU
 36   Mixed Use                              940 S Western Ave                                                                  380      37          6        31     37           26       11
                                                                     Retail                                  8.000   KSF
                                                                     Apartments                               411    DU
 37   Mixed Use                              864 S Vermont Ave                                                                 3,202    153          24       129    265         164       101
                                                                     Retail                                  43.800 KSF




Figures 13 and 14 illustrate the total a.m. and p.m. trips generated by the area projects at the study
intersections.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                                                                                 Page 22
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                                                                                  JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                                                                     £
                                                                                                                                     ¤
                                                                                                                                     101


                                                                                      22
                                                                                  !
                                                                                  (


                                                                                                   5
                                                                   12                              !
                                                                                                   (
                            27            16             24        !
                                                                   (        10                 3
                           !
                           (              !!
                                          ( ! 33
                                           ((           !
                                                        (              !
                                                                       (          15!
                                                                                    (!
                                                                                     (
                                          1                        28                                   21!       2
                                                                     !
                                                                     (
                                                                     (!
                                                                     ! (29                                (
                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                              (
                                                                       26                  9                                    18
                                                                   6              11       !
                                                                                           (                                !
                                                                                                                            (
                                                                   !
                                                                   (              !
                                                                                  (                    8!
                                                                                                        (
                                                                            37!
                                                                              (
                                  36                                                                                                   30
                                  !
                                  (                                         34                                                        !
                                                                                                                                      (
                                                   4          31
                                                                       !
                                                                       (
                                                   !
                                                   (          !
                                                              (        1 !
                                                                       !
                                                                       ( 2
                                                                         (                                                            ( 32
                                                                                                                                      !
                                                       3
                                                       !
                                                       (                 4
                                                                         !
                                                                         (                                                 35


                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                           !
                                                                                                                           (!
                                                                                                                             (
                                                                                                                                7              §
                                                                                                                                               ¦
                                                                                                                                               ¨
                                                                                                                                               110


                                                   23
                                                                             (5
                                                                             !                                !
                                                                                                              (
                                                                                                                      20
                                                                                                                                     (25
                                                   !
                                                   (                                                                  !
                                                                                                                      (              !




                                                        §
                                                        ¦
                                                        ¨
                                                        10                                                            !
                                                                                                                      (
                                                                                                                      13

                             19
                                  !( 17
                                  (!




Sources: Esri, DeLorme, NAVTEQ, TomTom, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN, GeoBase,
IGN, Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), and the GIS User Community




   LEGEND

              Project Site

              Study Intersection with
     !
     (
     #        Reference Number

        #
              Related Project Location
      !
      (       with Reference Number
                                                                                                                                           0    1,375
                                                                                                                                                           Feet
                                                                                                                                                        2,750     I
                                                        MORCS Charter School - 1157 S. Berendo Street                                                     Figure 12
                                                                                                                                       Location of Related Projects
                               0                                        128                                          169
                           2       4                               40         20                                 0                   0


                       5               13                   23                     12                       0                             0
                  90           1            94            50            2               44              0            3                         0
                       0               0                    22                     0                        0                             0

                           0       0                               22         0                                  0                   0
                               0                                        76                                           106




                                                                                             1                         2




              3                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                       VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                      5




                                                                        150                                          124
                                                                    0         0                                 13                   14


                                                               0                   0                        8                             10
                                                           0            4               0              48            5                         40
                                                               0                   0                        0                             0

                                                                    0         0                                  0                   0
                                                                        98                                           80

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                        N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                    Not to Scale




                                                 Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                   Figure 13
                                                                                                 Related Project AM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                             0                                         92                                          140
                         2       5                                25         16                                0                   0


                     1               2                    40                      28                       0                            0
               204           1           114            146            2               63              0           3                         0
                     0               0                    23                      0                        0                            0

                         0       0                                29         0                                 0                   0
                             0                                         161                                         223




                                                                                            1                        2




              3                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                     VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                    5




                                                                       115                                         95
                                                                  0          0                                 8                   11


                                                              0                   0                    14                               19
                                                          0            4               0             145           5                         59
                                                              0                   0                        0                            0

                                                                  0          0                                 0                   0
                                                                       190                                         157

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                      N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                  Not to Scale




                                               Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                   Figure 14
                                                                                                Related Project PM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                                                                 5. Future 2016 without-Project Conditions


5.3 Future without Project Intersection Levels of Service

The future 2016 without-Project traffic volumes are illustrated on Figure 15 (a.m. peak hour) and Figure
16 (p.m. peak hour). The LADOT Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) calculation worksheets are
provided in Appendix C of this report.

Table 8 summarizes the V/C and LOS values at the study intersections for this scenario.

                             Table 8 – Study Intersection Operations –
                          Future (Year 2016) Without Project Conditions
                                                        AM Peak        PM Peak
                        Study Intersections
                                                       V/C   LOS      V/C   LOS
               1    Berendo St & Olympic Blvd           0.445      A      0.537       A
               2    Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd          0.960      E      0.964       E
               3    Normandie Ave & 11th St             0.554      A      0.750       C
               4    Vermont Ave & 11th St               0.609       B     0.589       A
               5    Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd             0.821      D      0.805       D
             LOS = Level of Service
             V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio


With the exception of the Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection, the study intersections are
projected to continue to operate at good levels of service (LOS D or better) for the analyzed scenario.

The Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection is projected to degrade from LOS D to LOS E in
both analyzed peak hours with the addition of ambient growth and trip generation from area projects.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                            Page 26
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                             JB31104
May 7, 2014
                            45                                           1231                                      835
                       22        30                                127          138                           19                   15


                  29                  43                     107                      62                16                              51
              1797          1              1501           1614            2                1390        55           3                        52
                  40                  38                     132                      64                30                              22

                       64        35                                132          66                            19                   16
                            73                                           1310                                      1101




                                                                                                  1                  2




              3                                                                                                      4




                                                                                                                     VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                     5




                                                                         1314                                      1304
                                                                    40          41                            85                   87


                                                             60                       70                87                              82
                                                           129            4                103        927           5                        755
                                                             73                       65                122                             56

                                                                    45          59                            65                   48
                                                                         1450                                      1378

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                       N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                   Not to Scale




                                                  Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                 Figure 15
                                                            Future (2016) without Project - Weekday AM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                             77                                           1030                                      1052
                       32         50                                143          133                           31                   29


                  41                   44                     200                      124               39                              83
              1963           1              1537           1774            2                1337       102           3                        120
                  51                   38                     112                      83                30                              29

                       114        46                                157          86                            17                   32
                             83                                           1235                                      1009




                                                                                                   1                  2




              3                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                      VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                      5




                                                                          1179                                      1199
                                                                     45          31                            85                   83


                                                              45                       68                95                              125
                                                            124            4                131        845           5                        782
                                                              78                       62                120                             60

                                                                     77          74                            68                   68
                                                                          1404                                      1382

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                        N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                    Not to Scale




                                                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                 Figure 16
                                                             Future (2016) without Project - Weekday PM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
6. Future 2016 with-Project Conditions
This section documents future traffic conditions at the study intersections with the addition of Project-
generated traffic. Traffic volumes for these conditions were derived by adding the net Project trips to
the future without-Project volumes.

The future with-Project traffic volumes are illustrated on Figure 17 (a.m. peak hour) and Figure 18 (p.m.
peak hour). The LADOT Critical Movement Analysis (CMA) calculation worksheets are provided in
Appendix C of this report.

Table 9 summarizes the resulting V/C and LOS values at the study intersections.

                            Table 9 – Study Intersection Operations –
                           Future (Year 2016) With Project Conditions
                                                       AM Peak        PM Peak
                        Study Intersections
                                                      V/C   LOS      V/C   LOS
               1    Berendo St & Olympic Blvd            0.449      A      0.539      A
               2    Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd           0.964      E      0.965      E
               3    Normandie Ave & 11th St              0.558      A      0.752      C
               4    Vermont Ave & 11th St                0.621      B      0.593      A
               5    Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd              0.823      D      0.805      D
             LOS = Level of Service
             V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio


With the exception of the Vermont Avenue/Olympic Boulevard intersection, the study intersections are
projected to continue to operate at good levels of service (LOS D or better) for this scenario.

Determinations of significant traffic impacts created by Project traffic are discussed in the next report
section.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                           Page 29
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                             JB31104
May 7, 2014
                            45                                           1231                                      835
                       27        30                                136          138                           19                   20


                  29                  43                     107                      62                16                              51
              1797          1              1518           1617            2                1398        56           3                        52
                  40                  38                     132                      64                30                              22

                       67        38                                132          69                            19                   19
                            77                                           1317                                      1103




                                                                                                  1                  2




              3                                                                                                      4




                                                                                                                     VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                     5




                                                                         1314                                      1308
                                                                    40          41                            86                   90


                                                             70                       70                87                              82
                                                           134            4                103        927           5                        759
                                                             79                       72                122                             56

                                                                    45          59                            70                   48
                                                                         1450                                      1378

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                       N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                   Not to Scale




                                                  Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                 Figure 17
                                                                   Future (2016) with Project - Weekday AM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
                             77                                           1030                                      1052
                       33         50                                145          133                           31                   30


                  41                   44                     200                      124               39                              83
              1963           1              1541           1775            2                1339       102           3                        120
                  51                   38                     112                      83                30                              29

                       115        47                                157          87                            17                   33
                             84                                           1237                                      1010




                                                                                                   1                  2




              3                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                      VERMONT AVE
                                                                                                                      5




                                                                          1179                                      1200
                                                                     45          31                            85                   84


                                                              48                       68                95                              125
                                                            126            4                131        845           5                        783
                                                              80                       64                120                             60

                                                                     77          74                            69                   68
                                                                          1404                                      1382

            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                                                                        N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                                                                    Not to Scale




                                                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study                                 Figure 18
                                                                   Future (2016) with Project - Weekday PM Peak Hour Turn Volumes
7. Project Traffic Impacts
7.1 Determination of Traffic Impacts

Traffic impacts are identified if a proposed development will result in a significant change in traffic
conditions at a study intersection. A significant impact is typically identified if project-related traffic will
cause service levels to deteriorate beyond a threshold limit specified by the overseeing agency. Impacts
can also be significant if an intersection is already operating below an acceptable level of service and
project related traffic will worsen conditions within the specified threshold range.

The City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation has established specific thresholds for project-
related increases in the volume-to-capacity ratio (V/C) of signalized study intersections. The following
increases in peak-hour V/C ratios are considered significant impacts:


       Level of Service                   Final V/C*                           Project Related v/c increase
       C                                  < 0.70 – 0.80                        Equal to or greater than 0.040
       D                                  < 0.80 – 0.90                        Equal to or greater than 0.020
       E and F                            0.90 or more                         Equal to or greater than 0.010
      Note: Final V/C is the V/C ratio at an intersection, considering impacts from the project, ambient growth, trips from
      area/cumulative projects, but without proposed traffic impact mitigations.


7.2 Project Traffic Impacts – Existing With Project Conditions
A summary of the existing and existing with-Project V/C and LOS values is provided by Table 10. Traffic
impacts created by the proposed Project are determined by comparing the existing conditions to the
existing with-Project conditions.

               Table 10 – Assessment of Project Impacts Based on Existing Conditions
                                                           Existing (2014)       Existing (2014)
                                                                                                        Change          Sig
           Study Intersections                   Peak         Conditions             + Project
                                                                                                         in V/C      Impact?
                                                 Hour         V/C       LOS         V/C        LOS
  1    Berendo St & Olympic Blvd                  AM         0.442        A        0.447         A       0.005          No
                                                  PM         0.507        A        0.508         A       0.001          No
  2    Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd                 AM         0.898        D        0.902         E       0.004          No
                                                  PM         0.865        D        0.865         D       0.000          No
  3    Normandie Ave & 11th St                    AM         0.462        A        0.466         A       0.004          No
                                                  PM         0.617         B       0.619         B       0.002          No
  4    Vermont Ave & 11th St                      AM         0.593        A        0.605         B       0.012          No
                                                  PM         0.544        A        0.548         A       0.004          No
  5    Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd                    AM         0.782        C        0.784         C       0.002          No
                                                  PM         0.724        C        0.725         C       0.001          No
LOS = Level of Service
V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio

The proposed Project is not anticipated to create significant traffic impacts at any of the study
intersections under the analyzed existing traffic conditions.

Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                                  Page 32
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                                   JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                         7. Project Traffic Impacts

7.3 Project Traffic Impacts – Future with Project Conditions

Table 11 provides a summary of the future with-Project V/C and LOS values. Traffic impacts created by
the Project are determined by comparing the future without-Project conditions to the future with-
Project conditions.

                                 Table 11 – Assessment of Project Impacts Based on
                                           Future Conditions (Year 2016)
                                                 Existing (2014)   Future 2016   Future 2016
                                                                                                Change      Sig
           Study Intersections            Peak     Conditions      No Project    With Project
                                                                                                in V/C   Impact?
                                          Hour     V/C     LOS     V/C     LOS    V/C    LOS
  1    Berendo St & Olympic Blvd           AM     0.442      A     0.445    A    0.449     A     0.004      No
                                           PM     0.507      A     0.537    A    0.539     A     0.002      No
  2    Vermont Ave & Olympic Blvd          AM     0.898      D     0.960    E    0.964     E     0.004      No
                                           PM     0.865      D     0.964    E    0.965     E     0.001      No
  3    Normandie Ave & 11th St             AM     0.462      A     0.554    A    0.558     A     0.004      No
                                           PM     0.617      B     0.750    C    0.752     C     0.002      No
  4    Vermont Ave & 11th St               AM     0.593      A     0.609    B    0.621     B     0.012      No
                                           PM     0.544      A     0.589    A    0.593     A     0.004      No
  5    Vermont Ave & Pico Blvd             AM     0.782      C     0.821    D    0.823     D     0.002      No
                                           PM     0.724      C     0.805    D    0.805     D     0.000      No
LOS = Level of Service
V/C = Volume-to-Capacity Ratio


The proposed Project is not anticipated to have a significant traffic impact at any of the study intersections
under analyzed future conditions.

7.4 Project Pedestrian Access

The Project driveway for the underground parking structure would be on 11th Street. If the driveway
does not have open areas at the approach to 11th Street where sight lines down each sidewalk are
provided, it is recommended that parabolic mirrors be installed for better visibility of approaching
pedestrians. A warning light system should also be considered, to warn pedestrians of approaching
vehicles.

The Dewey Avenue/11th Street and Berendo Street/11th Street intersections are unsignalized, all-way stop
control intersections. All-way stop control provides for safe crossing points for pedestrians.

Student pick-up/drop-off area for the proposed school site would be on 11th Street. The proposed
charter middle school would have this separate pick-up/drop-off area from the existing public school
campus, which would retain a pick-up/drop-off area on Berendo Street.

The proposed Project is located at the northeastern portion of the existing Berendo Middle School
campus. Therefore, it is suggested that pedestrians utilize the city-generated pedestrian routes for
Berendo Middle School, which is provided in Appendix D.



Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                                     Page 33
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                      JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                                  7. Project Traffic Impacts



7.5 Project Construction Traffic

During Project construction, trucks for dirt hauling and materials delivery will need to access the site and
reach regional truck routes as well. Figure 19 provides recommended truck routing options, which use a
signalized intersection (Vermont Avenue/11thStreet) to access the neighborhood and also are based on a
minimal distance of travel within the local residential neighborhood.

Between Vermont Avenue and the site access point, trucks will encounter intersections that are not
controlled by traffic signals. During the construction period, truck operators should be directed by the
construction manager to obey residential area speed limits, either as posted or the prima facie speed limit
of 25 mph if not posted.

During times of dirt hauling or equipment deliveries where street loading by construction trucks may be
necessary, pedestrian access along the south curb of 11th Street adjacent to the Project site should be
closed and pedestrian detour signs that lead pedestrians to the north side of the roadway should be
posted at the next intersections in both directions.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 34
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                                 1                   2




              3                                                                     4




                                                                                    VERMONT AVE
                                                                                    5




            LEGEND
      Project Location
                                                                                                         N

 #    Study Intersections

XXX   Intersection Turn Volume
                                                                                                     Not to Scale




                                 Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS) Traffic Impact Study    Figure 19
                                                                             Potential Construction Truck Routes
8. Signal Warrant Analysis
This report section summarizes the traffic signal warrant analysis calculated for the nearby unsignalized
intersection of Berendo Street/11th Street. This analysis was performed to determine if requirements
would be met for a new traffic signal at the intersection based on future (2016) traffic volumes with the
Proposed Project.

KOA compiled new manual intersection vehicle turn movement counts that were conducted at this
intersection in December 2013 between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
The results of the counts were utilized to determine existing weekday a.m. and p.m. peak-hour
conditions for the signal warrant analysis.


8.1 Signal Warrant Criteria

The analysis was based on the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) published by the
Federal Highway Administration and amended for use in California by Caltrans. The installation of a
new traffic signal should improve the overall safety and/or operation of an intersection, and should not
seriously disrupt progressive traffic flow. The MUTCD states that engineering judgment must be used
for final decisions on implementing new signalization, whether or not warrants are met, and this
judgment would be applied by the City.

Based on the collected vehicle and pedestrian count data, the intersection was evaluated for traffic
warrants for peak-hour conditions and pedestrian crossing. The following signal warrant was analyzed.

       Warrant 3 - Peak Hour Volume – This is to determine that for one hour of the day minor
        street traffic suffers undue delay in entering or crossing the major street. Part A examines the
        total volume and vehicle hours of delay on the minor approach. Part B evaluates the peak hour
        volumes of both approaches of the major street and highest approach of the minor street.
        Warrant 3 would be met if Part A or Part B is met.



8.2. Signal Warrant Analysis Conclusions

The future conditions volumes were based on traffic growth and trips generated by area project trips, as
defined within Section 3 of this report. The result of the signal warrant analysis indicated that warrant 3
(Peak Hour Volume) was not satisfied.

Traffic signal warrants for a new potential traffic signal at this location would not be satisfied under
projected post-Project conditions Therefore, it is recommended that this intersection remains
unsignalized.

The signal warrant analysis calculations are provided in Appendix E.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                             Page 36
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
9. Congestion Management Plan Conformance
This section demonstrates the ways in which this traffic study was prepared to be in conformance with
the procedures mandated by the County of Los Angeles Congestion Management Program (CMP).

The CMP was created statewide by Proposition 111 and was implemented locally by the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). The CMP for Los Angeles County requires
that the traffic impact of individual development projects of potentially regional significance be analyzed.
A specific system of arterial roadways plus all freeways comprises the CMP system. Per CMP
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines, a traffic impact analysis is conducted where:

       At CMP arterial monitoring intersections, including freeway on-ramps or off-ramps, where the
        proposed project will add 50 or more vehicle trips during either a.m. or p.m. weekday peak
        hours.

       At CMP mainline freeway-monitoring locations, where the project will add 150 or more trips, in
        either direction, during the either the a.m. or p.m. weekday peak hours.

The nearest CMP arterial monitoring intersections to the project site are:

       CMP ID #85 – Wilshire Boulevard at Alvarado Street
       CMP ID #89 – Wilshire Boulevard at Western Avenue

The nearest CMP arterial monitoring intersections are located approximately one to two miles
northwest and northeast from the project site. Based on the project trip generation and the distance of
this location from the project site, it is not expected that 50 or more new trips per hour would be
added at these CMP intersections. Therefore, no further analysis of potential CMP impacts is required.

There are no freeway CMP monitoring stations in the project vicinity. Therefore, no further analysis of
CMP freeway monitoring stations is required.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 37
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                JB31104
May 7, 2014
10. Analysis Summary and Project Recommendations

10.1 Analysis Summary

The following summarizes the traffic study results and conclusions:

       The proposed Project will provide 450 seats for middle school students (6th to 8th grades) and
        would be located on the northeastern portion of the existing Berendo Middle School. The
        Project currently enrolls 300 students in facilities within the existing campus. The Project,
        therefore, will allow for an increase in enrollment within the MORCS program by 150 student
        seats.

       The project study area included five signalized intersections. Traffic counts were collected in
        December 2013 and existing conditions were considered to be the year 2014. The future
        analysis year was 2016, matching the planned opening date of the Project.

       For analysis of pre-project conditions, an ambient growth rate was applied, along with the trip
        generation from 37 area projects.

       The proposed new middle school facility is projected to generate approximately 243 weekday
        daily trips, including 81 trips during the a.m. peak hour and 24 trips during the p.m. peak hour.

       Under existing 2014 conditions, four of the five study intersections are operating at LOS C or
        better during the a.m. and p.m. peak hours. One intersection is operating at LOS D during the
        a.m. and p.m. peak hours.

       Under future without and with project conditions, all but one of the study intersections would
        operate at LOS D or better. Operations at one intersection would worsen within LOS E.

       Based on the City of Los Angeles significant traffic impact criteria, the proposed project would
        not result in significant traffic impacts at any of the analyzed study intersections, for either the
        analyzed existing with-Project conditions or future with-Project conditions.

       The proposed project is not anticipated to cause a significant traffic impact at any CMP arterial
        monitoring intersections and mainline freeway-monitoring locations.

       Pedestrian routes to and from campus should be encouraged by the school to be taken via 11th
        Street or 12th Street, and at locations with traffic signals, all-way stop control, or marked
        crosswalks, as shown in the Pedestrian Routes Map produced by the City.

       The analyzed peak-hour warrant for a new traffic signal at the Berendo Street/11th Street
        intersection was not satisfied. Therefore, it is recommended that this intersection remains
        unsignalized.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 38
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                                JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                        10. Analysis Summary and Project Recommendations

10.2 Vehicle and Pedestrian Access Circulation Plan

The following text provides a summary of vehicle circulation and pedestrian to the proposed site.

Vehicle Circulation

The proposed school entrance and student pick-up/drop-off area would be located on 11th Street. The
existing school pick-up/drop-off area for the existing Berendo middle school facility is on Berendo Street
and would remain.

On-street parking is currently permitted along the southern curb of 11th Street. The distance from the
western end of the project site to Berendo Street is approximately 250 feet, which is equivalent to 13
vehicles. It is recommended to that on-street parking be restricted in this area for pick-up/drop-off
operations during appropriate time periods, through the use of regulatory signage.

The following was concluded from a queuing analysis conducted for the proposed Project pick-up/drop-
off area:

       The total peak inbound trip demand during the morning peak hour will be 134 vehicles, for the
        entire 450-student charter school operation after expansion.

       Assuming a 25-second average unloading time per vehicle, the service rate of the pick-up/drop-
        off area would be (60 minutes x 60 seconds or 3600)/25 seconds), equaling 144 vehicles/hour.

       A queuing analysis of this data indicated that a probable queue would be slightly more than 13
        vehicles. A faster loading time for some vehicles would lower this total queue.

The expected average queue, based on project volumes, is expected to not exceed the pick-up/drop-off
area storage length under normal and typical conditions. A depiction of the calculated along the
frontage of the Project site is provided in Attachment F.

Pedestrian Access

The Dewey Avenue/11th Street and Berendo Street/11th Street intersections are unsignalized, all-way
stop control intersections. All-way stop control provides for safe crossing points for pedestrians.

The unsignalized intersection of Catalina Street/11th Street is adjacent to the project driveway. It is
recommended that parabolic mirrors be installed for better visibility of approaching pedestrians. A
warning light system should also be considered.

Peak access times to the underground parking structure by staff vehicles will occur before student drop-
off times and after pick-up times, due to typical staff schedules. Therefore, conflicts are not anticipated
between access to the garage and student drop-off/pick-up activity.

A marked crosswalk at Catalina Street is not necessary, as the nearby crosswalk location at the Berendo
Street intersection is less than 300 feet from campus site access points.



Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                              Page 39
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                               JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                                        10. Analysis Summary and Project Recommendations


Project Construction Traffic

During Project construction, trucks for dirt hauling and materials delivery will need to access the site and
reach regional truck routes as well. Recommended truck routing options have been provided in this
document that use a signalized intersection to access the neighborhood and also are based on a minimal
distance of travel within the local residential neighborhood.

Between Vermont Avenue and the site access point, trucks will encounter intersections that are not
controlled by traffic signals. During the construction period, truck operators should be directed by the
construction manager to obey residential area speed limits, either as posted or the prima facie speed limit
of 25 mph if not posted.

During times of dirt hauling or equipment deliveries where street loading by construction trucks may be
necessary, pedestrian access along the south curb of 11th Street adjacent to the Project site should be
closed and pedestrian detour signs that lead pedestrians to the north side of the roadway should be
posted at the next intersections in both directions.




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                                            Page 40
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)                              JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                      APPENDIX A
                     Project Memorandum of Understanding with LADOT




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                          APPENDIX B
                                        Traffic Counts Data




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
JB31104 BERENDO STREET - CHARTER SCHOOL
TOTAL AM PEAK HOUR with Factor
2014    NL        NT       NR         SL     ST   SR    EL     ET    ER    WL    WT    WR    TOTAL
 1       63        72      34         25     44   20    24    1673    39   37   1379   29     3439
 2      108      1210      65        116   1081   85    82    1533   108   63   1319   49     5819
 3      19        975      16        15     653   19    16     54     29   22    51    50     1919
 4      44       1325      58        40    1141   39    59    126     72   64   101    69     3138
 5      64       1272      47        72    1157   71    77    862    120   55   701    71     4569
TOTAL PM PEAK HOUR with Factor
2014    NL        NT       NR         SL     ST   SR     EL     ET   ER    WL    WT    WR    TOTAL
 1      112        81      45         44     75    29    39   1724    50   37   1395    41    3672
 2      125      1053      84        115    920   116   157   1596    87   81   1249    94    5677
 3      17        771      31        28     894    30    38    100    29   28    118    81    2165
 4      75       1190      73        30    1043   44    44    122     76   61   128     67    2953
 5      67       1201      67        71    1082   75    79    686    118   59   709    104    4318

CARS - AM PEAK HOUR
2013    NL        NT       NR         SL     ST   SR    EL     ET    ER    WL    WT    WR    TOTAL
 1       58        64      34         25     44   17    24    1630    31   34   1317   29     3307
 2      105      1126      48        112   1004   75    74    1490   102   59   1250   46     5491
 3      19        947      16        12     634   19    16     51     29   22    38    50     1853
 4      39       1221      53        40    1073   39    53    123     72   60    99    66     2938
 5      57       1193      45        72    1077   71    77    832    117   45   664    63     4313
CARS - PM PEAK HOUR
2013    NL        NT       NR         SL     ST   SR     EL     ET   ER    WL    WT    WR    TOTAL
 1      112        81      45         44     75    29    39   1643    50   37   1363    41    3559
 2      125      1007      82        111    874   113   150   1532    84   78   1220    92    5468
 3      17        754      31        28     866    30    35    100    29   28    118    81    2117
 4      75       1142      70        27     993   44    44    118     73   59   128     67    2840
 5      67       1160      67        71    1039   72    79    663    115   56   686    101    4176
BUS - AM PEAK HOUR
2013     NL       NT       NR        SL     ST    SR    EL    ET     ER    WL   WT     WR    TOTAL
 1       0         0        0        0       0     0    0     15      0    2    16      0     33
 2       0        19        1        1      23     0    2     12      4    1    26      0     89
 3       0         5        0        0       9     0    0     0       0    0    0       0     14
 4       0        24        0        0      27     0    2      2      0    1    1       0     57
 5       1        19        1        0      30     0    0     13      0    3    11      0     78
BUS - PM PEAK HOUR
         NL       NT       NR        SL     ST    SR    EL    ET     ER    WL   WT     WR    TOTAL
  1      0         0        0        0       0     0    0     17      0    0    11      0     28
  2      0        19        1        1      17     0    3     16      0    0     9      1     67
  3      0         6        0        0       7     0    0     0       0    0    0       0     13
  4      0        20        0        0      18     0    0      1      0    1    0       0     40
  5      0        19        0        0      20     0    0     10      0    0    10      0     59
TRUCKS - AM PEAK HOUR
2013     NL       NT       NR        SL     ST    SR    EL     ET    ER    WL   WT     WR    TOTAL
 1       2         3        0        0       0     1    0      8      3    0    15      0     32
 2       1        22        6        1      17     4    2      10     0    1    12      1     77
 3       0         8        0        1       2     0    0      1      0    0    5       0     17
 4       2        27        2        0      11     0    1      0      0    1    0       1     45
 5       2        20        0        0      14     0    0      4      1    2    8       3     54
TRUCKS - PM PEAK HOUR
2013     NL       NT       NR        SL     ST    SR    EL    ET     ER    WL   WT     WR    TOTAL
 1       0        0         0        0      0      0    0     22      0    0    6       0     28
 2       0        7         0        1      8      1    1     16      1    1    6       0     42
 3       0        3         0        0      7      0    1     0       0    0    0       0     11
 4       0        7         1        1      9      0    0     1       1    0    0       0     20
 5       0        5         0        0      5      1    0     3       1    1    3       1     20
                          City Of Los Angeles
                          Department Of Transportation
                          MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South               Berendo St

East/West                 Olympic Blvd

Day:                      Wednesday                Date:       December 11, 2013                  Weather:              SUNNY

Hours:        7-10 & 3-6                                                      Chekrs:             NDS

School Day:               YES                      District:                                        I/S CODE


                                  N/B                          S/B                                   E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                            14                           10                                    91                            98
BIKES                              19                            5                                    58                            46
BUSES                               0                            0                                   120                            87


                                  N/B   TIME                   S/B    TIME                           E/B      TIME                W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                       53     7.45                  39     7.45                          454       8.30                427     7.30

PM PK 15 MIN                       69    15.15                  39    17.00                          474      17.45                395    17.00

AM PK HOUR                        186     7.30                 111     7.15                         1711       8.00               1609     7.00

PM PK HOUR                        243    15.00                 148    17.00                         1771      17.00               1458    17.00




NORTHBOUND Approach                                                  SOUTHBOUND Approach                                                 TOTAL    XING S/L       XING N/L

Hours           Lt           Th          Rt        Total             Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total             N-S      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8               48               46         50       144           7-8                     27          43        22        92            236      42     0       34     0
8-9               60               67         34       161           8-9                     25          44        18        87            248      45     0       33     0
9-10              51               58         18       127           9-10                    18          52        28        98            225      36     0       28     0
15-16            115               65         63       243           15-16                   42          48        27       117            360      67     2       32     0
16-17            112               62         59       233           16-17                   38          53        33       124            357      73     2       37     0
17-18            112               81         45       238           17-18                   44          75        29       148            386      66     1       35     0

TOTAL            498              379     269         1146           TOTAL               194         315       157          666            1812    329       5    199       0


EASTBOUND Approach                                                   WESTBOUND Approach                                                  TOTAL    XING W/L       XING E/L

Hours           Lt           Th          Rt        Total             Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total             E-W      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  11       1227            29     1267            7-8                     64     1532           13     1609             2876     24     0       19     0
8-9                  24       1653            34     1711            8-9                     36     1348           29     1413             3124     10     0       14     0
9-10                 25       1312            45     1382            9-10                    19     1442           23     1484             2866     15     0       20     0
15-16                38       1525            71     1634            15-16                   41     1161           40     1242             2876     19     2       19     0
16-17                42       1538            69     1649            16-17                   41     1214           34     1289             2938     21     1       35     1
17-18                39       1682            50     1771            17-18                   37     1380           41     1458             3229     19     0       27     1

TOTAL            179            8937      298         9414           TOTAL               238        8077       180        8495            17909    108       3    134       2
XING N/L

      Sch
        0
        0
        0
        0
        0
        0

           0


XING E/L

      Sch
        0
        0
        0
        0
        1
        1

           2
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                   Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0        1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       3           8         7        0        5         4          1       229        4         16       388        4       669
           7:15   AM       15          7         10       6        6         10         3       267        9         10       397        1       741
           7:30   AM       13          15        13       13       6         3          3       354        6         20       401        6       853
           7:45   AM       17          16        20       8        26        5          4       377        10        18       346        2       849
           8:00   AM       15          18        18       9        16        3          2       392        7         14       324        3       821
           8:15   AM       19          16        6        2        10        4          5       413        10        12       313        8       818
           8:30   AM       13          9         7        6        7         5          9       439        6         7        344        8       860
           8:45   AM       13          24        3        8        11        6          8       409        11        3        367        10      873
           9:00   AM       18          19        6        7        12        9          7       363        13        5        348        6       813
           9:15   AM       12          15        4        6        17        9          9       343        12        6        360        9       802
           9:30   AM       11          13        5        3        13        5          6       318        9         5        379        7       774
           9:45   AM       10          11        3        2        10        5          3       288        11        3        355        1       702

                        NL       NT             NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :     159      171             102        70     139         68        60    4192         108       119    4322          65      9575
    APPROACH %'s :    36.81% 39.58%            23.61%    25.27% 50.18%      24.55%     1.38% 96.15%        2.48%     2.64% 95.92%        1.44%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      800 AM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       60          67        34        25      44         18        24      1653        34        36      1348        29      3372

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.789                      0.777                         0.942                         0.930               0.966

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                   Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0        1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       30          14       20        14      7          10        9        366        10        10       267        6       763
           3:15   PM       30          19       20        10      14         2         11       380        23        15       318        9       851
           3:30   PM       23          15       10        5       9          9         6        385        16        9        278        13      778
           3:45   PM       32          17       13        13      18         6         12       394        22        7        298        12      844
           4:00   PM       29          12       17        11      10         11        10       368        12        13       263        8       764
           4:15   PM       32          18       17        11      15         5         13       386        21        9        335        13      875
           4:30   PM       21          17       11        6       12         8         9        412        19        9        314        7       845
           4:45   PM       30          15       14        10      16         9         10       372        17        10       302        6       811
           5:00   PM       28          14       17        12      18         9         8        390        11        8        380        7       902
           5:15   PM       35          17       11        14      18         5         13       423        13        5        330        11      895
           5:30   PM       24          17       11        13      16         6         8        416        15        11       356        14      907
           5:45   PM       25          33       6         5       23         9         10       453        11        13       314        9       911

                        NL       NT             NR          SL    ST          SR         EL    ET           ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :     339      208             167        124    176         89        119   4745         190       119    3755         115     10146
    APPROACH %'s :    47.48% 29.13%            23.39%    31.88% 45.24%      22.88%     2.35% 93.89%        3.76%     2.98% 94.13%        2.88%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       112         81        45        44      75         29        39      1682        50        37      1380        41      3615

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.930                      0.949                         0.934                         0.923               0.992

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                                 Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                             Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       3           7         7        0        5          4          1        223        4         15       373        3       645
           7:15   AM       15          7         10       6        6          9          3        260        7         10       389        1       723
           7:30   AM       13          15        13       13       6          3          3        347        5         19       392        6       835
           7:45   AM       15          16        20       8        26         5          4        367        9         18       332        2       822
           8:00   AM       14          17        18       9        16         3          2        384        7         14       316        3       803
           8:15   AM       19          16        6        2        10         3          5        410        10        10       304        8       803
           8:30   AM       13          8         7        6        7          5          9        431        4         7        337        8       842
           8:45   AM       12          23        3        8        11         6          8        405        10        3        360        10      859
           9:00   AM       18          18        6        7        10         9          7        356        13        5        338        6       793
           9:15   AM       12          15        4        6        17         9          9        334        11        6        349        9       781
           9:30   AM       10          13        4        3        12         5          6        309        7         5        366        7       747
           9:45   AM       10          11        3        2        8          4          3        284        11        3        346        1       686

                        NL       NT             NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :     154      166             101        70     134         65        60    4110            98       115    4202          64      9339
    APPROACH %'s :    36.58% 39.43%            23.99%    26.02% 49.81%      24.16%     1.41% 96.30%          2.30%     2.62% 95.91%        1.46%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      800 AM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       58          64        34        25      44         17          24      1630        31        34      1317        29      3307

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.796                      0.768                           0.949                         0.925               0.962

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                                 Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                             Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       29          14       20        14      7          10          9        360        10        10       262        6       751
           3:15   PM       30          19       20        10      14         2           11       369        23        15       311        9       833
           3:30   PM       23          15       10        5       9          9           6        372        16        9        275        13      762
           3:45   PM       32          17       13        12      18         6           12       382        21        5        292        12      822
           4:00   PM       28          12       17        11      10         11          10       356        11        11       260        8       745
           4:15   PM       32          18       17        10      15         5           13       378        21        9        330        12      860
           4:30   PM       21          17       11        6       12         8           9        407        19        8        310        7       835
           4:45   PM       29          15       14        10      16         9           9        362        17        9        299        6       795
           5:00   PM       28          14       17        12      18         9           8        379        11        8        374        7       885
           5:15   PM       35          17       11        14      18         5           13       420        13        5        325        11      887
           5:30   PM       24          17       11        13      16         6           8        405        15        11       353        14      893
           5:45   PM       25          33       6         5       23         9           10       439        11        13       311        9       894

                        NL       NT             NR          SL    ST          SR         EL    ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :     336      208             167        122    176         89        118   4629           188       113    3702         114      9962
    APPROACH %'s :    47.26% 29.25%            23.49%    31.52% 45.48%      23.00%     2.39% 93.80%          3.81%     2.88% 94.22%        2.90%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       112         81        45        44      75         29          39      1643        50        37      1363        41      3559

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.930                      0.949                           0.941                         0.926               0.995

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          PREPARED BY NATIONAL DATA & SURVEYING SERVICES
PROJECT#: 13-5664-001
N/S Street: Berendo St
E/W Street: Olympic Blvd
DATE:        12/11/2013                                     DAY:      Wednesday
CITY:        Los Angeles
    AM
Adult Pedestrians                                           School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                        TIME
               EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  7:00 AM       5     3   8    2     1     6    1       1     7:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:15 AM       2     5   6    6     0     1    2       0     7:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:30 AM       1     5   3    4     6     3    4       5     7:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:45 AM       5     8   9    4     2     0    4       7     7:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:00 AM       6     6  16    6     1     0    2       4     8:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:15 AM       3     4   1    2     0     2    2       0     8:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:30 AM       2     4   7    0     0     4    0       1     8:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:45 AM       4     4   7    6     3     4    0       1     8:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:00 AM       4     5   6    9     2     1    3       7     9:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:15 AM       2     2   3    1     0     3    0       0     9:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:30 AM       3     1   5    1     1     3    0       2     9:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:45 AM       5     6   9    2     4     6    1       2     9:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  TOTALS       42    53  80   43    20    33   19      30     TOTALS      0      0  0     0     0     0    0      0


    PM
Adult Pedestrians                                           School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                        TIME
               EB   WB   EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  3:00 PM       6    6    6   14     3     1    3       2     3:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:15 PM       2    3   15    8     3     1    1       1     3:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:30 PM       1    4    2    7     4     1    8       0     3:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:45 PM       3    7    7    8     5     1    4       0     3:45 PM      0     0   0    2     0     0    2       0
  4:00 PM       5    2   15   14     2     4    8       2     4:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:15 PM       4    8    8    7     4     2    2       2     4:15 PM      0     0   1    0     0     1    0       0
  4:30 PM       5    2    6    7     4     4    2       1     4:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    1       0
  4:45 PM       6    5    9    7     6     9    2       2     4:45 PM      0     0   1    0     0     0    0       0
  5:00 PM       2    5    5    8     8     1    4       2     5:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:15 PM       7    2   11    6     1     5    1       0     5:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:30 PM       4    4    8    6     1     0    3       1     5:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:45 PM       5    6   15    7     7     4    2       6     5:45 PM      0     0   1    0     0     1    0       0
 TOTALS        50   54  107 99      48    33   40      19     TOTALS      0      0  3     2     0     2    3      0
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                                 Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                             Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST        SR           EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1         0           1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       0           0         0        1        0                     0         0          0        0         1          1       3
           7:15   AM       0           1         0        0        0                     0         1          0        0         4          0       6
           7:30   AM       0           0         0        0        0                     0         4          0        0         2          0       6
           7:45   AM       0           0         0        0        0                     0         1          0        0         3          0       4
           8:00   AM       0           0         0        0        0                     0         1          0        0         3          0       4
           8:15   AM       1           0         0        0        0                     0         2          0        0         1          0       4
           8:30   AM       0           1         0        0        1                     0         0          0        0         2          0       4
           8:45   AM       0           0         0        0        0                     0         2          0        0         1          0       3
           9:00   AM       0           0         0        0        0                     0         0          0        0         1          0       1
           9:15   AM       0           1         0        0        1                     0         1          0        0         0          0       3
           9:30   AM       0           0         1        0        0                     0         2          0        0         0          0       3
           9:45   AM       0           0         1        0        0                     1         0          1        1         0          1       5

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST         SR        EL     ET              ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      1         3             2          1      2          0         1     14               1        1      18           2        46
     APPROACH %'s :   16.67% 50.00%            33.33%    33.33% 66.67%      0.00%     6.25% 87.50%           6.25%     4.76% 85.71%        9.52%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                 eb a   eb d                      wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       800 AM                                                                                                                  TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        1           1         0        0        1        0            0         5         0         0         7         0        15

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.500                      0.250                           0.625                         0.583               0.938

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                                  Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                              Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                     Olympic Blvd                   Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                      WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST       SR           EL       ET          ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0         1        0           1         3           0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       1           0         0                 1                     0         5           1        0         0          0        8
           3:15   PM       1           1         0                 0                     1         2           1        0         0          0        6
           3:30   PM       0           0         1                 1                     0         6           0        0         2          1       11
           3:45   PM       0           0         0                 0                     0         0           1        0         4          0        5
           4:00   PM       0           1         2                 0                     0         0           0        0         0          0        3
           4:15   PM       1           0         0                 0                     0         2           0        0         3          1        7
           4:30   PM       0           0         0                 0                     0         5           1        0         2          0        8
           4:45   PM       1           1         0                 0                     0         1           1        1         0          0        5
           5:00   PM       1           0         0                 0                     0         1           0        0         4          0        6
           5:15   PM       0           0         0                 0                     0         3           1        0         0          0        4
           5:30   PM       1           0         0                 0                     0         4           0        0         5          0       10
           5:45   PM       0           1         0                 0                     0         6           0        1         1          0        9

                        NL        NT            NR          SL      ST       SR        EL     ET               ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      6         4             3          0        2        0         1     35                6        2      21           2        82
     APPROACH %'s :   46.15% 30.77%            23.08%      0.00% 100.00%    0.00%     2.38% 83.33%           14.29%     8.00% 84.00%        8.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a     sb d               eb a   eb d                       wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        2           1         0         0       0        0            0        14          1         1        10         0        29

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.750                      0.000                           0.625                          0.550               0.725

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                               Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                              BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                               AM
     NS/EW Streets:              Berendo St                  Berendo St                    Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                   SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL            NT      NR      SL       ST       SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0              1       0      0         1        0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM                                                                            4          0        1         9                  14
           7:15   AM                                                                            5          1        0         4                  10
           7:30   AM                                                                            5          0        1         6                  12
           7:45   AM                                                                            6          0        0         8                  14
           8:00   AM                                                                            4          0        0         3                   7
           8:15   AM                                                                            3          0        2         6                  11
           8:30   AM                                                                            5          0        0         4                   9
           8:45   AM                                                                            3          0        0         3                   6
           9:00   AM                                                                            3          0        0         2                   5
           9:15   AM                                                                            5          0        0         1                   6
           9:30   AM                                                                            3          0        0         1                   4
           9:45   AM                                                                            2          0        0         0                   2

                          NL            NT      NR      SL       ST       SR       EL     ET               ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :       0              0       0      0         0        0        0     48                1        4      47           0       100
     APPROACH %'s :                                                               0.00% 97.96%            2.04%     7.84% 92.16%        0.00%
                       nb a       nb d               sb a     sb d              eb a   eb d                       wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :           800 AM                                                                                                           TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       0            0        0      0        0        0           0        15         0         2        16         0        33

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.000                    0.000                          0.750                         0.563               0.750

          CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                               Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                              BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                               PM
     NS/EW Streets:              Berendo St                  Berendo St                    Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                   SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL            NT      NR      SL       ST       SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0              1       0      0         1        0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM                                                                            1          0        0         3                   4
           3:15   PM                                                                            8          0        0         2                  10
           3:30   PM                                                                            9          0        0         2                  11
           3:45   PM                                                                            8          1        1         2                  12
           4:00   PM                                                                            6          1        2         2                  11
           4:15   PM                                                                            7          0        0         5                  12
           4:30   PM                                                                            4          0        1         3                   8
           4:45   PM                                                                            9          0        1         1                  11
           5:00   PM                                                                            5          0        0         3                   8
           5:15   PM                                                                            2          0        0         3                   5
           5:30   PM                                                                            2          0        0         2                   4
           5:45   PM                                                                            8          0        0         3                  11

                          NL            NT      NR      SL       ST       SR       EL     ET               ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :       0              0       0      0         0        0        0     69                2        5      31           0       107
     APPROACH %'s :                                                               0.00% 97.18%            2.82%    13.89% 86.11%        0.00%
                       nb a       nb d               sb a     sb d              eb a   eb d                       wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :           500 PM                                                                                                           TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       0            0        0      0        0        0           0        17         0         0        11         0        28

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.000                    0.000                          0.531                         0.917               0.636

          CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                                Day: Wednesday
                                                                            HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                            Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                   Olympic Blvd                   Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                      WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR        EL       ET          ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0        1         3           0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       0           1         0                 0          0                  2           0                 6           1       10
           7:15   AM       0           0         0                 0          1                  2           1                 4           0        8
           7:30   AM       0           0         0                 0          0                  2           1                 3           0        6
           7:45   AM       2           0         0                 0          0                  4           1                 6           0       13
           8:00   AM       1           1         0                 0          0                  4           0                 5           0       11
           8:15   AM       0           0         0                 0          1                  0           0                 3           0        4
           8:30   AM       0           1         0                 0          0                  3           2                 3           0        9
           8:45   AM       1           1         0                 0          0                  1           1                 4           0        8
           9:00   AM       0           1         0                 2          0                  4           0                 8           0       15
           9:15   AM       0           0         0                 0          0                  4           1                 10          0       15
           9:30   AM       1           0         1                 1          0                  6           2                 12          0       23
           9:45   AM       0           0         0                 2          1                  2           0                 9           0       14

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET            ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      5         5             1          0       5          3         0     34             9        0      73           1       136
     APPROACH %'s :   45.45% 45.45%             9.09%      0.00% 62.50%     37.50%     0.00% 79.07%        20.93%     0.00% 98.65%        1.35%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                    wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       800 AM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        2           3         0        0        0         1         0         8          3         0        15         0        32

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.625                      0.250                         0.550                          0.750               0.727

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: 13-5664-001                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                           HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                 PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                    Berendo St                   Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR       SL      ST         SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0       0        1          0        1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       1                             0                            0         5                   0         2          0        8
           3:15   PM       0                             0                            0         3                   0         5          0        8
           3:30   PM       0                             0                            0         4                   0         1          0        5
           3:45   PM       0                             1                            0         4                   1         4          0       10
           4:00   PM       1                             0                            0         6                   0         1          0        8
           4:15   PM       0                             1                            0         1                   0         0          1        3
           4:30   PM       0                             0                            0         1                   0         1          0        2
           4:45   PM       1                             0                            1         1                   0         2          0        5
           5:00   PM       0                             0                            0         6                   0         3          0        9
           5:15   PM       0                             0                            0         1                   0         2          0        3
           5:30   PM       0                             0                            0         9                   0         1          0       10
           5:45   PM       0                             0                            0         6                   0         0          0        6

                          NL     NT             NR       SL       ST         SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    3          0              0        2        0          0         1     47            0        1      22           1        77
     APPROACH %'s : 100.00%     0.00%           0.00% 100.00%    0.00%      0.00%     2.08% 97.92%        0.00%     4.17% 91.67%        4.17%
                     nb a     nb d                    sb a    sb d                  eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                                TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       0           0         0       0        0         0         0        22         0         0         6         0        28

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.000                     0.000                         0.611                         0.500               0.700

          CONTROL : Signalized
                        City Of Los Angeles
                        Department Of Transportation
                        MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South             Vermont Ave

East/West               Olympic Blvd

Day:                    Wednesday                Date:        December 11, 2013                  Weather:             SUNNY

Hours:        7-10 & 3-6                                                     Chekrs:             NDS

School Day:             YES                      District:                                         I/S CODE


                              N/B                             S/B                                   E/B                        W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                        136                            104                                    85                         103
BIKES                           94                             67                                    48                          27
BUSES                          133                            140                                   120                          88


                              N/B     TIME                    S/B    TIME                           E/B     TIME               W/B     TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                   368      9.00                  351     7.45                          477      8.30               416     7.30

PM PK 15 MIN                   332     17.00                  318    16.00                          466     17.15               372    17.30

AM PK HOUR                    1364      7.15                 1262     7.00                         1771      7.45              1509     7.00

PM PK HOUR                    1247     16.45                 1206    16.00                         1803     17.00              1410    16.45




NORTHBOUND Approach                                                 SOUTHBOUND Approach                                               TOTAL    XING S/L       XING N/L

Hours           Lt         Th          Rt        Total              Hours              Lt          Th       Rt        Total            N-S      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8              132        1143            50     1325             7-8                  96        1082        84       1262            2587    190     2       74     1
8-9                79       1148            57     1284             8-9                 136         908       108       1152            2436    128     0       58     2
9-10               94       1119            79     1292             9-10                126         807       144       1077            2369    108     1       55     0
15-16              83         943           70     1096             15-16               116         902       156       1174            2270    231     0      105     1
16-17              74       1025            85     1184             16-17               113         979       114       1206            2390    234     4       98     1
17-18            125        1033            83     1241             17-18               113         899       114       1126            2367    217     3       86     2

TOTAL            587          6411      424         7422            TOTAL               700        5577       720       6997           14419   1108   10       476       7


EASTBOUND Approach                                                  WESTBOUND Approach                                                TOTAL    XING W/L       XING E/L

Hours           Lt         Th          Rt        Total              Hours              Lt          Th       Rt        Total            E-W      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8               84        1166         91        1341             7-8                     60     1408          41     1509            2850    105     0      190     1
8-9               79        1580         88        1747             8-9                     62     1213          62     1337            3084     72     3      128     3
9-10              95        1152         55        1302             9-10                    78     1243          63     1384            2686     36     2      108     1
15-16            159        1323        119        1601             15-16                   69      931          79     1079            2680    129     1      231     0
16-17            124        1408         85        1617             16-17                   78     1131          82     1291            2908    123     0      234     2
17-18            154        1564         85        1803             17-18                   79     1235          93     1407            3210     87     0      217     2

TOTAL            695          8193      523         9411            TOTAL               426        7161       420       8007           17418    552       6   1108       9
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                  Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0        1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       44         242        10       19      266        28        24       190        14        12       345        11      1205
           7:15   AM       29         323        7        22      260        25        26       249        17        18       345        8       1329
           7:30   AM       34         293        12       26      250        15        20       361        21        17       389        10      1448
           7:45   AM       25         285        21       29      306        16        14       366        39        13       329        12      1455
           8:00   AM       30         295        10       25      251        27        24       391        23        17       276        10      1379
           8:15   AM       17         294        12       34      237        21        20       394        23        14       294        15      1375
           8:30   AM       20         270        17       28      214        27        15       439        23        16       323        21      1413
           8:45   AM       12         289        18       49      206        33        20       356        19        15       320        16      1353
           9:00   AM       27         324        17       30      202        28        33       319        14        14       304        13      1325
           9:15   AM       20         250        17       25      197        32        21       305        16        16       330        17      1246
           9:30   AM       26         285        19       34      185        28        18       280        14        26       337        13      1265
           9:45   AM       21         260        26       37      223        56        23       248        11        22       272        20      1219

                        NL       NT             NR          SL    ST          SR         EL    ET           ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    305      3410            186        358   2797        336        258   3898         234       200    3864         166     16012
     APPROACH %'s :    7.82% 87.41%             4.77%    10.25% 80.12%       9.62%     5.88% 88.79%        5.33%     4.73% 91.35%        3.92%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       106         1167      55       114      1044       79        78      1512        106       61      1288        47      5657

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.979                       0.881                        0.968                         0.839               0.972

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                 Day: Wednesday
                                                                                TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                             Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                    Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR        EL        ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2          0        1          3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       25         203       10        30      221         37        35        340        29        16       220        24      1190
           3:15   PM       17         222       18        33      221         46        45        323        27        26       243        16      1237
           3:30   PM       16         268       26        30      245         34        38        324        28        17       244        16      1286
           3:45   PM       25         250       16        23      215         39        41        336        35        10       224        23      1237
           4:00   PM       16         253       23        37      248         33        35        356        21        22       248        23      1315
           4:15   PM       20         236       21        19      233         30        35        338        28        25       293        18      1296
           4:30   PM       22         260       26        31      255         26        31        376        14        19       298        17      1375
           4:45   PM       16         276       15        26      243         25        23        338        22        12       292        24      1312
           5:00   PM       31         275       26        32      228         29        33        367        27        16       320        24      1408
           5:15   PM       26         233       18        31      246         24        46        403        17        16       311        23      1394
           5:30   PM       33         281       17        21      212         35        44        387        17        25       324        23      1419
           5:45   PM       35         244       22        29      213         26        31        407        24        22       280        23      1356

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST          SR         EL    ET            ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    282      3001            238        342    2780        384        437   4295          289       226    3297         254     15825
     APPROACH %'s :    8.01% 85.23%             6.76%      9.75% 79.29%      10.95%     8.70% 85.54%         5.76%     5.98% 87.29%        6.72%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                  eb a   eb d                    wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       125         1033      83       113      899        114        154      1564        85        79      1235        93      5577

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.934                       0.935                          0.967                         0.946               0.983

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                 Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                             Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                    Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       38         225        9        17      259        28          21       187        14        12       333        10      1153
           7:15   AM       28         303        7        21      252        25          24       245        16        17       338        7       1283
           7:30   AM       34         278        11       26      242        15          20       355        20        17       379        10      1407
           7:45   AM       24         278        18       28      296        14          11       360        37        13       318        11      1408
           8:00   AM       30         284        8        25      245        26          23       383        23        16       270        10      1343
           8:15   AM       17         286        11       33      221        20          20       392        22        13       283        15      1333
           8:30   AM       20         257        16       26      207        26          13       433        22        16       318        17      1371
           8:45   AM       10         278        18       49      200        33          19       353        19        12       316        15      1322
           9:00   AM       26         316        17       30      195        27          31       315        14        14       296        12      1293
           9:15   AM       20         235        17       24      185        31          20       296        16        15       320        14      1193
           9:30   AM       25         277        19       34      176        27          18       272        14        25       325        12      1224
           9:45   AM       21         247        24       37      214        54          21       245        10        21       264        18      1176

                        NL       NT             NR          SL    ST          SR         EL    ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    293      3264            175        350   2692        326        241   3836           227       191    3760         151     15506
     APPROACH %'s :    7.85% 87.46%             4.69%    10.39% 79.93%       9.68%     5.60% 89.13%          5.27%     4.66% 91.66%        3.68%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       105         1126      48       112      1004       75          74      1490        102       59      1250        46      5491

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.990                       0.881                          0.960                         0.834               0.975

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                  Day: Wednesday
                                                                                   CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                              Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR          EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2          0          1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM       25         194       10        30      213         37          34       336        28        16       217        24      1164
           3:15   PM       16         216       18        33      213         46          44       308        27        26       235        15      1197
           3:30   PM       16         261       25        30      238         33          37       316        27        16       241        16      1256
           3:45   PM       25         241       14        21      202         37          39       326        35        9        218        22      1189
           4:00   PM       16         245       22        37      236         32          35       350        18        21       244        22      1278
           4:15   PM       20         228       21        19      218         28          32       332        26        24       288        18      1254
           4:30   PM       22         249       26        31      246         25          31       367        14        19       294        15      1339
           4:45   PM       16         266       15        26      231         25          22       330        22        12       288        24      1277
           5:00   PM       31         268       25        31      223         28          32       358        27        16       314        24      1377
           5:15   PM       26         225       18        31      237         24          46       399        17        15       308        22      1368
           5:30   PM       33         275       17        21      204         35          44       378        16        25       320        23      1391
           5:45   PM       35         239       22        28      210         26          28       397        24        22       278        23      1332

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST          SR         EL    ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    281      2907            233        338    2671        376        424   4197           281       221    3245         248     15422
     APPROACH %'s :    8.21% 84.98%             6.81%      9.99% 78.91%      11.11%     8.65% 85.62%          5.73%     5.95% 87.37%        6.68%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                  eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                                    TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       125         1007      82       111      874        113        150       1532        84        78      1220        92      5468

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.934                       0.940                           0.956                         0.944               0.983

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          PREPARED BY NATIONAL DATA & SURVEYING SERVICES
PROJECT#: 13-5664-002
N/S Street: Vermont Ave
E/W Street: Olympic Blvd
DATE:        12/11/2013                                        DAY:      Wednesday
CITY:        Los Angeles
    AM
Adult Pedestrians                                              School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG    EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                           TIME
               EB    WB   EB  WB     NB      SB    NB     SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  7:00 AM      10    12   15  17     15      17     3     10     7:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:15 AM       8    15   21  17     21      17    11     14     7:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:30 AM       7     8   14  30     14      30    18     14     7:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     1    0       0
  7:45 AM       3    11   39  37     39      37    15     20     7:45 AM      0     1   0    2     0     0    0       0
  8:00 AM      15     9   27  21     27      21    16      9     8:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       3
  8:15 AM       8     4   21  12     21      12     8      9     8:15 AM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:30 AM       7     5   11  12     11      12     9      8     8:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     3    0       0
  8:45 AM       5     5   14  10     14      10     3     10     8:45 AM      0     1   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:00 AM       4     1   13  11     13      11     9      2     9:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:15 AM      10     6   15   8     15       8     6      1     9:15 AM      0     0   1    0     1     0    0       2
  9:30 AM      10    12   22  11     22      11     6      5     9:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:45 AM      10     2   16  12     16      12     6      1     9:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  TOTALS       97    90  228 198    228     198   110    103     TOTALS      1      2  1     2     1     4    0      5


    PM
Adult Pedestrians                                              School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG    EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                           TIME
               EB   WB   EB   WB     NB      SB    NB     SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  3:00 PM       7    8   22    8     22       8    13      8     3:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:15 PM      18   12   73   19     73      19    19     25     3:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       1
  3:30 PM      19    9   29   16     29      16    18     18     3:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:45 PM      20   12   37   27     37      27    12     16     3:45 PM      0     1   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:00 PM      10   14   64   13     64      13    12     15     4:00 PM      0     0   0    3     0     0    0       0
  4:15 PM      14   15   34   20     34      20    15     16     4:15 PM      1     0   0    0     0     2    0       0
  4:30 PM      14   10   24   24     24      24    22     16     4:30 PM      0     0   0    1     0     0    0       0
  4:45 PM      13    8   31   24     31      24    17     10     4:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:00 PM      19    8   34   10     34      10    10     13     5:00 PM      0     2   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:15 PM      14    3   35   35     35      35    16      7     5:15 PM      0     0   2    0     0     0    0       0
  5:30 PM      16    8   34   28     34      28    19      9     5:30 PM      0     0   0    1     0     2    0       0
  5:45 PM       5   13   28   13     28      13     6      7     5:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
 TOTALS       169 120 445 237       445     237   179    160     TOTALS      1      3  2     5     0     4    0      1
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                  Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                              Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL       ET         ER        WL       WT          WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0           1         3          0        1         3           0

           7:00   AM       0           1         0        0         1         0           1         1          0        0         0           0        4
           7:15   AM       0           5         0        0         2         0           0         2          1        0         1           0       11
           7:30   AM       0           3         0        0         6         0           0         0          0        0         2           0       11
           7:45   AM       0           4         0        2         2         0           1         1          0        0         0           0       10
           8:00   AM       0           1         0        0         3         0           0         0          0        0         2           1        7
           8:15   AM       0           3         0        0         0         0           0         2          0        0         2           0        7
           8:30   AM       1           4         0        1         2         0           0         2          0        1         0           0       11
           8:45   AM       1           4         0        0         1         1           1         1          0        0         0           1       10
           9:00   AM       0           2         0        0         4         0           1         1          0        0         2           0       10
           9:15   AM       1           3         0        0         2         0           0         0          0        0         2           0        8
           9:30   AM       0           3         1        1         3         0           0         3          0        0         0           0       11
           9:45   AM       0           4         0        0         0         0           0         0          0        0         0           0        4

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET              ER       WL      WT           WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      3        37             1          4     26           1         4     13               1        1      11            2       104
     APPROACH %'s :    7.32% 90.24%             2.44%    12.90% 83.87%       3.23%    22.22% 72.22%           5.56%     7.14% 78.57%        14.29%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                      wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       730 AM                                                                                                                    TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          11         0        2        11        0            1         3         0         0         6          1        35

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.688                       0.542                           0.500                         0.583                0.795

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                   Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                               Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                     Olympic Blvd                   Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                      WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL       ET          ER        WL       WT          WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0           1         3           0        1         3           0

           3:00   PM       0           2         0        1         1         1           1         2           0        0         1           0        9
           3:15   PM       0           3         1        2         2         0           0         3           1        0         0           1       13
           3:30   PM       0           2         1        1         2         0           0         3           1        0         2           0       12
           3:45   PM       0           1         0        0         3         0           0         0           0        0         0           0        4
           4:00   PM       0           1         0        0         1         0           0         0           0        0         2           0        4
           4:15   PM       0           8         0        0         1         0           0         0           0        0         1           1       11
           4:30   PM       1           4         0        0         8         0           0         4           0        0         1           0       18
           4:45   PM       0           8         0        1         3         0           0         3           0        1         0           0       16
           5:00   PM       0           3         0        0         5         0           0         0           0        0         1           0        9
           5:15   PM       0           4         0        0         1         0           1         4           0        0         0           1       11
           5:30   PM       2           5         1        0         1         0           0         4           2        0         0           0       15
           5:45   PM       1           5         0        0         2         0           0         1           0        1         0           0       10

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET               ER       WL      WT           WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      4        46             3          5     30           1         2     24                4        2       8            3       132
     APPROACH %'s :    7.55% 86.79%             5.66%    13.89% 83.33%       2.78%     6.67% 80.00%           13.33%    15.38% 61.54%        23.08%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                       wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                                     TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        3          17         1        0        9         0            1         9          2         1         1          1        45

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.656                       0.450                           0.500                          0.750                0.750

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                  Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                              Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                    Olympic Blvd                   Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                      WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL       ET          ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0          1         3           0        1         3          0

           7:00   AM       2           7         1         2        5                    2         3           0        0         9          0       31
           7:15   AM       0           8         0         1        5                    1         3           1        1         4          1       25
           7:30   AM       0           7         0         0        5                    0         3           1        0         8          0       24
           7:45   AM       0           3         1         0        5                    1         4           2        0         7          0       23
           8:00   AM       0           6         0         0        5                    1         3           0        1         3          0       19
           8:15   AM       0           3         0         1        8                    0         2           1        0         8          0       23
           8:30   AM       0           6         0         0        4                    1         5           0        0         3          1       20
           8:45   AM       0           4         0         0        4                    1         2           0        0         2          0       13
           9:00   AM       0           3         0         0        5                    1         3           0        0         2          0       14
           9:15   AM       0           4         0         0        5                    1         3           0        0         1          0       14
           9:30   AM       0           1         0         0        3                    0         3           0        0         2          0        9
           9:45   AM       0           5         1         0        3                    1         1           0        0         0          0       11

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET              ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      2        57             3          4      57          0        10     35               5        2      49           2       226
     APPROACH %'s :    3.23% 91.94%             4.84%      6.56% 93.44%      0.00%    20.00% 70.00%          10.00%     3.77% 92.45%        3.77%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                      wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       730 AM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          19         1        1        23        0           2        12          4         1        26         0        89

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.714                       0.667                          0.643                          0.844               0.927

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                  Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                              Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                     Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0           1         3          0        1         3          0

           3:00   PM                   6         0         0       3          0           1         0          0        0         2          0       12
           3:15   PM                   5         0         0       5          0           1         7          0        0         3          0       21
           3:30   PM                   6         1         0       4          1           1         7          0        0         1          0       21
           3:45   PM                   8         2         0       9          0           2         6          0        1         3          0       31
           4:00   PM                   6         0         0       8          1           0         3          3        0         2          0       23
           4:15   PM                   6         0         0       13         1           2         4          1        0         5          0       32
           4:30   PM                   5         0         0       7          1           0         5          0        0         3          2       23
           4:45   PM                   6         0         0       8          0           1         7          0        0         3          0       25
           5:00   PM                   6         1         1       2          0           1         5          0        0         3          0       19
           5:15   PM                   5         0         0       6          0           0         2          0        0         2          1       16
           5:30   PM                   5         0         0       7          0           0         3          0        0         2          0       17
           5:45   PM                   3         0         0       2          0           2         6          0        0         2          0       15

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET              ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        67             4          1      74          4        11     55               4        1      31           3       255
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 94.37%             5.63%      1.27% 93.67%      5.06%    15.71% 78.57%           5.71%     2.86% 88.57%        8.57%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                      wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          19         1        1        17        0            3        16         0         0         9         1        67

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.714                       0.643                           0.594                         0.833               0.882

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                                Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                            Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                   Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT          WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2          0        1         3          0        1         3           0

           7:00   AM       4           10        0         0        2          0        1         0          0        0        3            1       21
           7:15   AM       1           12        0         0        3          0        1         1          0        0        3            0       21
           7:30   AM       0           8         1         0        3          0        0         3          0        0        2            0       17
           7:45   AM       1           4         2         1        5          2        2         2          0        0        4            1       24
           8:00   AM       0           5         2         0        1          1        0         5          0        0        3            0       17
           8:15   AM       0           5         1         0        8          1        0         0          0        1        3            0       19
           8:30   AM       0           7         1         2        3          1        1         1          1        0        2            3       22
           8:45   AM       2           7         0         0        2          0        0         1          0        3        2            1       18
           9:00   AM       1           5         0         0        2          1        1         1          0        0        6            1       18
           9:15   AM       0           11        0         1        7          1        0         6          0        1        9            3       39
           9:30   AM       1           7         0         0        6          1        0         5          0        1        10           1       32
           9:45   AM       0           8         1         0        6          2        1         2          1        1        8            2       32

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST          SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT           WR      TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :      10       89              8          4      48          10         7     27            2        7      55            13      280
    APPROACH %'s :     9.35% 83.18%             7.48%      6.45% 77.42%      16.13%    19.44% 75.00%        5.56%     9.33% 73.33%        17.33%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                  eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        1          22         6        1        17         4         2        10         0         1        12          1        77

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.806                       0.611                         0.600                         0.700                0.802

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-002                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                  Olympic Blvd                  Olympic Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT          WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        1        1         2         0        1         3          0        1         3           0

           3:00   PM       0           3         0         0        5         0        0         4          1        0         1           0       14
           3:15   PM       1           1         0         0        3         0        0         8          0        0         5           1       19
           3:30   PM       0           1         0         0        3         0        0         1          1        1         2           0        9
           3:45   PM       0           1         0         2        4         2        0         4          0        0         3           1       17
           4:00   PM       0           2         1         0        4         0        0         3          0        1         2           1       14
           4:15   PM       0           2         0         0        2         1        1         2          1        1         0           0       10
           4:30   PM       0           6         0         0        2         0        0         4          0        0         1           0       13
           4:45   PM       0           4         0         0        4         0        0         1          0        0         1           0       10
           5:00   PM       0           1         0         0        3         1        0         4          0        0         3           0       12
           5:15   PM       0           3         0         0        3         0        0         2          0        1         1           0       10
           5:30   PM       0           1         0         0        1         0        0         6          1        0         2           0       11
           5:45   PM       0           2         0         1        1         0        1         4          0        0         0           0        9

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT           WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      1        27             1          3      35          4         2     43            4        4      21            3       148
     APPROACH %'s :    3.45% 93.10%             3.45%      7.14% 83.33%      9.52%     4.08% 87.76%        8.16%    14.29% 75.00%        10.71%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           7         0        1        8         1         1        16         1         1         6          0        42

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.583                       0.625                        0.643                         0.583                0.875

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          City Of Los Angeles
                          Department Of Transportation
                          MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South               Normandie Ave

East/West                 11th St

Day:                      Wednesday                 Date:       December 11, 2013                  Weather:              SUNNY

Hours:        7-10 & 3-6                                                       Chekrs:             NDS

School Day:               YES                       District:                                        I/S CODE


                                   N/B                          S/B                                   E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                              47                          33                                        8                        10
BIKES                                29                          33                                        9                         4
BUSES                                47                          48                                        2                         1


                                   N/B    TIME                  S/B    TIME                           E/B      TIME                W/B    TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                        291    8.45                 200     8.00                              37    8.00                39     9.45

PM PK 15 MIN                        207   17.30                 255    17.15                              51   17.30                71    15.00

AM PK HOUR                      1026       8.30                 730     7.30                          113       7.15               141     9.00

PM PK HOUR                          811   16.45                 938    16.45                          178      17.00               240    16.00




NORTHBOUND Approach                                                   SOUTHBOUND Approach                                                TOTAL    XING S/L       XING N/L

Hours           Lt            Th          Rt        Total             Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total            N-S      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  12             742        18       772           7-8                     15      634           14       663           1435      8     1       13     0
8-9                  19             960        16       995           8-9                     13      645           19       677           1672     10     3       19     1
9-10                 12             889        16       917           9-10                    26      514           14       554           1471     12     0       12     0
15-16                20             700        19       739           15-16                   17      685           24       726           1465     23     1       10     0
16-17                17             712        32       761           16-17                   30      825           26       881           1642     17     0       32     2
17-18                22             748        33       803           17-18                   27      854           31       912           1715     12     0        8     0

TOTAL            102            4751       134         4987           TOTAL               128        4157       128        4413            9400     82       5     94       3


EASTBOUND Approach                                                    WESTBOUND Approach                                                 TOTAL    XING W/L       XING E/L

Hours           Lt            Th          Rt        Total             Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total            E-W      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  17              57        17        91           7-8                     20       41        43          104            195     18     0       40     3
8-9                  16              52        29        97           8-9                     22       43        50          115            212     19     0       46     7
9-10                 20              40        23        83           9-10                    18       61        62          141            224     13     1       18     0
15-16                27              77        32       136           15-16                   23      124        83          230            366     28     0       35     1
16-17                33              97        26       156           16-17                   31      108       101          240            396     27     1       48     5
17-18                35             110        33       178           17-18                   28      127        80          235            413     36     1       56     4

TOTAL            148                433    160          741           TOTAL               142         504       419        1065           1806     141       3    243   20
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                                    TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                     AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                        EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR         EL        ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0         0          1        0        0       1         0

           7:00   AM       5          181        6         5        144         1            2      9        4         3       7        9        376
           7:15   AM       2          158        3         2        148         2            6      12       4         5       6        9        357
           7:30   AM       4          211        5         7        186         5            6      10       6         7       14       13       474
           7:45   AM       1          192        4         1        156         6            3      26       3         5       14       12       423
           8:00   AM       5          193        4         4        188         8            4      22       11        5       12       14       470
           8:15   AM       3          240        4         4        160         5            3      13       6         6       10       9        463
           8:30   AM       3          250        2         3        147         1            4      10       4         4       13       11       452
           8:45   AM       8          277        6         2        150         5            5      7        8         7       8        16       499
           9:00   AM       1          225        5         6        117         2            8      7        5         6       12       16       410
           9:15   AM       3          245        1         6        134         1            3      9        8         6       12       12       440
           9:30   AM       3          213        2         5        138         5            4      11       4         2       19       17       423
           9:45   AM       5          206        8         9        125         6            5      13       6         4       18       17       422

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST           SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     43      2591             50         54    1793          47        53     149          69        60    145       155       5209
     APPROACH %'s :    1.60% 96.54%             1.86%      2.85% 94.67%        2.48%    19.56% 54.98%       25.46%    16.67% 40.28%    43.06%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                   eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      800 AM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       19          960       16        13       645         19         16       52        29        22     43        50       1884

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.855                        0.846                           0.655                      0.927              0.944

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0        0        1        0        0       1         0

           3:00   PM       5          134       2          3        155        3         5       18       9         6       37       28       405
           3:15   PM       8          179       5          7        177        6         8       17       8         9       40       21       485
           3:30   PM       5          188       7          6        174        8         10      11       8         4       21       19       461
           3:45   PM       2          199       5          1        179        7         4       31       7         4       26       15       480
           4:00   PM       6          169       7          4        205        6         3       25       10        9       26       25       495
           4:15   PM       4          171       5          9        201        9         5       29       8         7       29       27       504
           4:30   PM       4          181       13         8        206        3         14      20       4         7       30       23       513
           4:45   PM       3          191       7          9        213        8         11      23       4         8       23       26       526
           5:00   PM       3          196       7          5        212        5         6       23       7         6       30       18       518
           5:15   PM       4          183       10         8        241        6         7       23       10        4       29       20       545
           5:30   PM       7          193       7          6        214        11        12      31       8         10      36       17       552
           5:45   PM       8          176       9          8        187        9         10      33       8         8       32       25       513

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST           SR        EL     ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     59      2160             84         74    2364          81        95     284       91        82    359       264       5997
     APPROACH %'s :    2.56% 93.79%             3.65%      2.94% 93.85%        3.22%    20.21% 60.43%    19.36%    11.63% 50.92%    37.45%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                   eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      445 PM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       17          763       31        28       880         30        36     100       29        28     118       81       2141

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.979                        0.920                        0.809                      0.901              0.970

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                              Day: Wednesday
                                                                                    CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0          0        1        0        0       1         0

           7:00   AM       5          175        6         5        140         1          2       8        4         3       7        9        365
           7:15   AM       2          155        3         2        146         2          6       11       4         5       5        9        350
           7:30   AM       4          208        5         7        182         5          6       10       6         7       13       13       466
           7:45   AM       1          188        3         1        151         6          2       25       3         5       13       12       410
           8:00   AM       5          189        4         4        186         8          4       22       11        5       12       14       464
           8:15   AM       3          239        4         4        156         5          3       13       6         6       8        9        456
           8:30   AM       3          245        2         3        144         1          4       10       4         4       12       11       443
           8:45   AM       8          274        6         1        148         5          5       6        8         7       6        16       490
           9:00   AM       1          220        5         6        114         2          7       7        5         6       12       16       401
           9:15   AM       2          237        1         6        133         1          3       8        8         6       12       12       429
           9:30   AM       3          209        2         5        132         5          4       11       4         2       19       17       413
           9:45   AM       5          204        8         9        124         6          5       13       6         4       17       17       418

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST           SR        EL     ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     42      2543             49         53    1756          47        51     144         69        60    136       155       5105
     APPROACH %'s :    1.59% 96.55%             1.86%      2.86% 94.61%        2.53%    19.32% 54.55%      26.14%    17.09% 38.75%    44.16%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                   eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      800 AM                                                                                                                TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       19          947       16        12       634         19          16     51        29        22     38        50       1853

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.852                        0.840                          0.649                      0.887              0.945

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                              Day: Wednesday
                                                                                    CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0          0        1        0        0       1         0

           3:00   PM       5          130       2          3        151        2           5       18       9         6       37       28       396
           3:15   PM       8          176       5          5        175        6           7       17       8         9       40       20       476
           3:30   PM       4          185       7          6        168        8           10      11       8         4       21       18       450
           3:45   PM       2          195       5          1        177        7           4       30       7         4       26       15       473
           4:00   PM       5          166       7          4        197        6           3       25       10        9       26       25       483
           4:15   PM       4          164       5          9        199        9           5       29       8         7       29       27       495
           4:30   PM       4          175       13         8        204        3           14      20       4         7       30       23       505
           4:45   PM       3          188       7          9        210        8           11      23       4         8       23       26       520
           5:00   PM       3          194       7          5        208        5           6       23       7         6       30       18       512
           5:15   PM       4          183       10         8        237        6           7       23       10        4       29       20       541
           5:30   PM       7          189       7          6        211        11          11      31       8         10      36       17       544
           5:45   PM       8          174       8          8        187        9           10      33       8         8       32       25       510

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST           SR        EL     ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     57      2119             83         72    2324          80        93     283         91        82    359       262       5905
     APPROACH %'s :    2.52% 93.80%             3.67%      2.91% 93.86%        3.23%    19.91% 60.60%      19.49%    11.66% 51.07%    37.27%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                   eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      445 PM                                                                                                                TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       17          754       31        28       866         30          35     100       29        28     118       81       2117

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.983                        0.920                          0.820                      0.901              0.973

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          PREPARED BY NATIONAL DATA & SURVEYING SERVICES
PROJECT#: 13-5664-003
N/S Street: Normandie Ave
E/W Street: 11th St
DATE:        12/11/2013                                       DAY:      Wednesday
CITY:        Los Angeles
    AM
Adult Pedestrians                                             School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                          TIME
               EB    WB   EB  WB    NB      SB   NB      SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  7:00 AM       0     0    1   0    12       2    1       2     7:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:15 AM       1     1    1   1     5       4    1       1     7:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:30 AM       5     3    2   0     5       1    3       2     7:30 AM      0     0   0    0     2     0    0       0
  7:45 AM       2     1    1   2     7       4    3       5     7:45 AM      0     0   0    1     1     0    0       0
  8:00 AM       2     4    2   3    12      11    1       6     8:00 AM      0     0   0    3     3     4    0       0
  8:15 AM       4     2    1   0     5       4    4       3     8:15 AM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:30 AM       2     0    2   2     5       3    1       1     8:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:45 AM       1     4    0   0     3       3    2       1     8:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:00 AM       3     0    2   1     2       3    0       2     9:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:15 AM       1     1    3   1     4       3    4       2     9:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:30 AM       2     2    0   0     1       1    0       1     9:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:45 AM       0     3    0   5     3       1    3       1     9:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    1       0
  TOTALS       23    21   15  15    64      40   23      27     TOTALS      1      0  0     4     6     4    1      0


    PM
Adult Pedestrians                                             School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                          TIME
               EB   WB   EB   WB    NB      SB   NB      SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  3:00 PM       4    0    3    3     4       5    4       3     3:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:15 PM       0    1    7    3     6       3    7       3     3:15 PM      0     0   1    0     0     0    0       0
  3:30 PM       1    1    0    2    11       1    2       3     3:30 PM      0     0   0    0     1     0    0       0
  3:45 PM       2    1    2    3     4       1    2       4     3:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:00 PM       0    1    1    3     6       1    2       4     4:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:15 PM       4   11    2    2     6      12    3       3     4:15 PM      0     1   0    0     1     2    0       0
  4:30 PM       6    0    0    4     4       1    4       5     4:30 PM      1     0   0    0     0     0    1       0
  4:45 PM       5    5    3    2     6      12    1       5     4:45 PM      0     0   0    0     2     0    0       0
  5:00 PM       0    2    0    1     3       6    2       4     5:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     1    0       0
  5:15 PM       1    2    5    1     6      10    3       8     5:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     1    0       0
  5:30 PM       2    0    0    3     1       5    2      12     5:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       1
  5:45 PM       1    0    2    0     7      18    0       5     5:45 PM      0     0   0    0     1     1    0       0
 TOTALS        26   24   25   27    64      75   32      59     TOTALS      1      1  1     0     5     5    1      1
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                                    BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                            Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                     AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                        EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR           EL      ET       ER        WL      WT       WR        TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0           0        1        0        0        1        0

           7:00   AM                   1         0        0          0                      0       0                   0       0        0         1
           7:15   AM                   1         0        0          0                      0       0                   1       0        0         2
           7:30   AM                   1         0        1          1                      0       0                   0       0        0         3
           7:45   AM                   1         0        2          1                      0       1                   0       0        0         5
           8:00   AM                   1         0        0          0                      0       0                   0       0        0         1
           8:15   AM                   1         0        0          1                      0       0                   0       0        0         2
           8:30   AM                   0         0        0          0                      2       0                   0       0        0         2
           8:45   AM                   0         0        0          0                      0       0                   0       0        1         1
           9:00   AM                   1         1        0          0                      0       0                   0       0        0         2
           9:15   AM                   2         0        0          0                      0       0                   0       0        0         2
           9:30   AM                   0         0        0          1                      0       1                   0       0        0         2
           9:45   AM                   2         0        0          1                      1       0                   0       0        0         4

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST            SR        EL     ET           ER       WL       WT      WR        TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        11             1          3      5             0         3      2            0        1        0       1          27
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 91.67%             8.33%    37.50% 62.50%         0.00%    60.00% 40.00%        0.00%    50.00%   0.00%   50.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                    eb a   eb d                   wb a    nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       800 AM                                                                                                                 TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           2         0        0         1          0            2       0        0         0       0        1          6

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.500                        0.250                           0.250                      0.250               0.750

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                                    BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                     PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                        EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0           0        1        0        0       1         0

           3:00   PM                   3                   0         2          0           0                          0       0                  5
           3:15   PM                   0                   1         0          1           0                          0       0                  2
           3:30   PM                   1                   0         3          1           0                          0       0                  5
           3:45   PM                   1                   0         3          0           0                          0       0                  4
           4:00   PM                   3                   1         4          0           0                          0       0                  8
           4:15   PM                   1                   0         1          0           0                          0       0                  2
           4:30   PM                   2                   0         0          0           0                          0       0                  2
           4:45   PM                   1                   0         1          0           0                          0       1                  3
           5:00   PM                   0                   0         4          0           0                          0       0                  4
           5:15   PM                   2                   0         2          0           3                          0       0                  7
           5:30   PM                   2                   0         1          0           0                          1       0                  4
           5:45   PM                   1                   0         0          0           1                          0       0                  2

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST           SR      EL      ET            ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        17             0          2      21            2       4       0             0        1       1        0         48
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 100.00%            0.00%      8.00% 84.00%        8.00% 100.00%   0.00%         0.00%    50.00% 50.00%     0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a    eb d                    wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       445 PM                                                                                                                TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           5         0        0         8          0            3       0        0         1       1        0         18

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.625                        0.500                           0.250                      0.500              0.643

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                              Day: Wednesday
                                                                                   BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR          EL      ET       ER        WL      WT       WR        TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0          0        1        0        0        1        0

           7:00   AM                   3         0                   4                     0                                   0                  7
           7:15   AM                   2         0                   1                     0                                   0                  3
           7:30   AM                   1         0                   3                     0                                   1                  5
           7:45   AM                   3         1                   3                     1                                   0                  8
           8:00   AM                   1         0                   2                     0                                   0                  3
           8:15   AM                   1         0                   4                     0                                   0                  5
           8:30   AM                   2         0                   2                     0                                   0                  4
           8:45   AM                   1         0                   1                     0                                   0                  2
           9:00   AM                   1         0                   1                     0                                   0                  2
           9:15   AM                   1         0                   0                     0                                   0                  1
           9:30   AM                   0         0                   2                     0                                   0                  2
           9:45   AM                   2         0                   0                     0                                   0                  2

                        NL        NT            NR          SL      ST          SR      EL      ET           ER       WL       WT      WR        TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        18             1          0       23           0       1       0            0        0        1       0          44
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 94.74%             5.26%      0.00% 100.00%       0.00% 100.00%   0.00%        0.00%     0.00% 100.00%    0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a     sb d                eb a    eb d                   wb a    nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       800 AM                                                                                                                TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           5         0         0        9          0           0       0        0         0       0        0          14

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.625                        0.563                          0.000                      0.000               0.700

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                              Day: Wednesday
                                                                                   BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0          0        1        0        0       1         0

           3:00   PM       0           3                             2                             0                                             5
           3:15   PM       0           2                             2                             0                                             4
           3:30   PM       1           3                             4                             0                                             8
           3:45   PM       0           4                             1                             1                                             6
           4:00   PM       1           2                             5                             0                                             8
           4:15   PM       0           2                             2                             0                                             4
           4:30   PM       0           3                             2                             0                                             5
           4:45   PM       0           2                             1                             0                                             3
           5:00   PM       0           2                             3                             0                                             5
           5:15   PM       0           0                             1                             0                                             1
           5:30   PM       0           2                             2                             0                                             4
           5:45   PM       0           1                             0                             0                                             1

                        NL        NT            NR          SL      ST          SR        EL      ET         ER       WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      2        26             0          0       25           0         0       1          0       0       0         0         54
     APPROACH %'s :    7.14% 92.86%             0.00%      0.00% 100.00%       0.00%     0.00% 100.00%      0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a     sb d                  eb a    eb d                 wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       445 PM                                                                                                               TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           6         0         0        7          0           0       0        0          0      0        0         13

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.750                        0.583                          0.000                      0.000              0.650

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                           HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR        EL      ET       ER        WL      WT       WR        TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0        0        1        0        0        1        0

           7:00   AM       0           3                   0         0                   0       1                           0                   4
           7:15   AM       0           1                   0         1                   0       1                           1                   4
           7:30   AM       0           2                   0         1                   0       0                           0                   3
           7:45   AM       0           1                   0         2                   0       1                           1                   5
           8:00   AM       0           3                   0         0                   0       0                           0                   3
           8:15   AM       0           0                   0         0                   0       0                           2                   2
           8:30   AM       0           3                   0         1                   0       0                           1                   5
           8:45   AM       0           2                   1         1                   0       1                           2                   7
           9:00   AM       0           4                   0         2                   1       0                           0                   7
           9:15   AM       1           7                   0         1                   0       1                           0                  10
           9:30   AM       0           4                   0         4                   0       0                           0                   8
           9:45   AM       0           0                   0         1                   0       0                           1                   2

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST           SR        EL     ET        ER       WL       WT      WR        TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      1        30             0          1      14            0         1      5         0        0        8       0          60
     APPROACH %'s :    3.23% 96.77%             0.00%      6.67% 93.33%        0.00%    16.67% 83.33%     0.00%     0.00% 100.00%    0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                   eb a   eb d                wb a    nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       800 AM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           8         0        1         2          0         0       1        0         0       5        0          17

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.667                        0.375                        0.250                      0.625               0.607

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                  Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-003                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                           HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Normandie Ave                   Normandie Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL        ST         SR        EL      ET       ER        WL      WT       WR        TOTAL
     LANES:               0             2        0        0          2          0        0        1        0        0        1        0

           3:00   PM                   1         0        0          2          1        0                                           0          4
           3:15   PM                   1         0        2          0          0        1                                           1          5
           3:30   PM                   0         0        0          2          0        0                                           1          3
           3:45   PM                   0         0        0          1          0        0                                           0          1
           4:00   PM                   1         0        0          3          0        0                                           0          4
           4:15   PM                   5         0        0          0          0        0                                           0          5
           4:30   PM                   3         0        0          0          0        0                                           0          3
           4:45   PM                   1         0        0          2          0        0                                           0          3
           5:00   PM                   0         0        0          1          0        0                                           0          1
           5:15   PM                   0         0        0          3          0        0                                           0          3
           5:30   PM                   2         0        0          1          0        1                                           0          4
           5:45   PM                   1         1        0          0          0        0                                           0          2

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST            SR      EL      ET         ER       WL       WT     WR         TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        15             1          2     15             1       2       0          0        0        0      2           38
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 93.75%             6.25%    11.11% 83.33%         5.56% 100.00%   0.00%      0.00%     0.00%   0.00% 100.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                  eb a    eb d                 wb a    nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       445 PM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           3         0        0         7          0         1       0        0         0       0        0          11

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.375                        0.583                        0.250                      0.000               0.688

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          City Of Los Angeles
                          Department Of Transportation
                          MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South               Vermont Ave

East/West                 11th St

Day:                      Wednesday                 Date:        December 11, 2013                  Weather:              SUNNY

Hours:        7-10 & 3-6                                                        Chekrs:             NDS

School Day:               YES                       District:                                         I/S CODE


                                   N/B                           S/B                                   E/B                          W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                             120                           94                                        9                         3
BIKES                                65                           69                                        7                        18
BUSES                               136                          144                                       11                        11


                                   N/B    TIME                   S/B    TIME                           E/B      TIME                W/B    TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                        358    8.30                  324     7.45                              96    7.45                67     7.45

PM PK 15 MIN                        345   17.30                  296    15.30                              70   17.30                81    17.30

AM PK HOUR                      1368       7.15                 1195     7.00                          255       7.30               229     7.15

PM PK HOUR                      1319      16.45                 1135    16.00                          238      17.00               255    17.00




NORTHBOUND Approach                                                    SOUTHBOUND Approach                                                TOTAL    XING S/L       XING N/L

Hours           Lt            Th          Rt        Total              Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total            N-S      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  42        1244            37     1323             7-8                     34     1123           38     1195            2518    142     8       91     0
8-9                  49        1237            64     1350             8-9                     41      953           32     1026            2376     33     2       38     0
9-10                 43        1167            47     1257             9-10                    35      858           28       921           2178     16     0       18     0
15-16                62        1014            80     1156             15-16                   38     1008           47     1093            2249    149     6       92     0
16-17                73        1120            87     1280             16-17                   26     1043           66     1135            2415     84     0       44     0
17-18                75        1169            71     1315             17-18                   28     1020           44     1092            2407     75     0       63     0

TOTAL            344            6951       386         7681            TOTAL               202        6005       255        6462           14143    499   16       346       0


EASTBOUND Approach                                                     WESTBOUND Approach                                                 TOTAL    XING W/L       XING E/L

Hours           Lt            Th          Rt        Total              Hours              Lt          Th        Rt        Total            E-W      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  52             116        49       217            7-8                     59       93           72       224            441     71     0       41     0
8-9                  49              44        76       169            8-9                     55       57           50       162            331     44     0       27     0
9-10                 35              49        45       129            9-10                    43       53           49       145            274     31     0       22     0
15-16                42              74        77       193            15-16                   52       83           48       183            376    173     0       60     0
16-17                38              99        56       193            16-17                   49       86           65       200            393    106     0       43     0
17-18                44             120        74       238            17-18                   60      128           67       255            493     98     0       53     0

TOTAL            260                502    377         1139            TOTAL               318         500       351        1169           2308     523       0    246       0
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                          Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        1        0        1       1         0

           7:00   AM       11         293        5        5       275        11        11      7        11        12      12       19       672
           7:15   AM       9          330        9        6       282        6         12      18       9         17      17       21       736
           7:30   AM       13         334        9        8       269        9         8       33       12        17      25       17       754
           7:45   AM       9          287        14       15      297        12        21      58       17        13      39       15       797
           8:00   AM       10         321        23       11      263        12        15      16       34        15      19       14       753
           8:15   AM       9          281        12       11      246        7         12      11       18        15      19       16       657
           8:30   AM       11         335        12       7       229        8         12      10       14        13      12       13       676
           8:45   AM       19         300        17       12      215        5         10      7        10        12      7        7        621
           9:00   AM       14         309        12       9       221        4         5       15       11        5       13       6        624
           9:15   AM       8          284        13       7       209        8         8       3        11        16      11       12       590
           9:30   AM       7          301        11       8       203        9         8       10       9         10      14       17       607
           9:45   AM       14         273        11       11      225        7         14      21       14        12      15       14       631

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    134      3648            148        110    2934        98        136    209      170       157    203       171       8118
     APPROACH %'s :    3.41% 92.82%             3.77%      3.50% 93.38%      3.12%    26.41% 40.58%    33.01%    29.57% 38.23%    32.20%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      715 AM                                                                                                            TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       41          1272      55        40      1111       39        56     125       72        62     100       67       3040

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.961                       0.918                       0.659                      0.854              0.954

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                          Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        1        0        1       1         0

           3:00   PM       20         230       32        9       245        9         9       9        26        15      17       11       632
           3:15   PM       15         232       24        10      248        15        12      27       21        11      28       10       653
           3:30   PM       11         277       7         7       274        15        7       15       18        15      16       14       676
           3:45   PM       16         275       17        12      241        8         14      23       12        11      22       13       664
           4:00   PM       23         283       24        9       266        18        8       33       16        9       18       25       732
           4:15   PM       16         250       22        4       258        14        15      21       17        13      24       16       670
           4:30   PM       14         295       18        8       263        20        8       19       9         18      14       14       700
           4:45   PM       20         292       23        5       256        14        7       26       14        9       30       10       706
           5:00   PM       18         300       17        5       253        10        15      22       19        11      22       12       704
           5:15   PM       17         271       16        12      264        13        12      17       21        15      28       18       704
           5:30   PM       21         304       20        6       259        8         6       45       19        19      41       21       769
           5:45   PM       19         294       18        5       244        13        11      36       15        15      37       16       723

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    210      3303            238         92    3071       157        124    293      207       161    297       180       8333
     APPROACH %'s :    5.60% 88.06%             6.34%      2.77% 92.50%      4.73%    19.87% 46.96%    33.17%    25.24% 46.55%    28.21%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                            TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       75          1169      71        28      1020       44        44     120       74        60     128       67       2900

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.953                       0.945                       0.850                      0.787              0.943

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        1        0        1       1         0

           7:00   AM       10         272        5        5       268        11          10      6        11        12      12       18       640
           7:15   AM       7          314        9        6       272        6           11      17       9         17      17       20       705
           7:30   AM       13         320        8        8       259        9           8       33       12        17      24       17       728
           7:45   AM       9          276        14       15      287        12          19      57       17        12      39       15       772
           8:00   AM       10         311        22       11      255        12          15      16       34        14      19       14       733
           8:15   AM       9          272        12       11      229        6           12      11       17        15      19       16       629
           8:30   AM       11         322        12       7       222        8           12      10       14        13      11       13       655
           8:45   AM       18         289        17       12      207        5           9       7        10        10      7        7        598
           9:00   AM       11         303        12       9       215        4           5       15       11        5       13       6        609
           9:15   AM       8          271        13       7       197        8           7       3        11        16      11       12       564
           9:30   AM       7          291        11       8       194        9           8       10       9         10      14       17       588
           9:45   AM       13         261        10       11      213        6           14      20       14        12      15       14       603

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    126      3502            145        110    2818        96        130    205        169       153    201       169       7824
     APPROACH %'s :    3.34% 92.82%             3.84%      3.64% 93.19%      3.17%    25.79% 40.67%      33.53%    29.25% 38.43%    32.31%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      715 AM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       39          1221      53        40      1073       39          53     123       72        60     99        66       2938

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.957                       0.917                         0.667                      0.852              0.951

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        1        0        1       1         0

           3:00   PM       20         221       32        9       236        9           9       9        26        15      17       11       614
           3:15   PM       15         224       23        10      240        15          12      27       21        11      28       10       636
           3:30   PM       11         269       7         7       266        14          7       15       17        15      16       14       658
           3:45   PM       15         266       17        12      227        8           13      23       12        10      22       13       638
           4:00   PM       22         276       23        9       252        17          8       32       16        8       17       24       704
           4:15   PM       15         243       22        4       241        14          14      20       17        13      24       15       642
           4:30   PM       14         287       18        8       255        18          7       19       9         18      14       14       681
           4:45   PM       19         283       23        5       246        14          7       26       14        9       30       10       686
           5:00   PM       18         292       17        5       247        10          15      22       19        10      22       12       689
           5:15   PM       17         264       15        11      255        13          12      17       20        15      28       18       685
           5:30   PM       21         298       20        6       250        8           6       44       19        19      41       21       753
           5:45   PM       19         288       18        5       241        13          11      35       15        15      37       16       713

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    206      3211            235         91    2956       153        121    289        205       158    296       178       8099
     APPROACH %'s :    5.64% 87.92%             6.43%      2.84% 92.38%      4.78%    19.67% 46.99%      33.33%    25.00% 46.84%    28.16%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       75          1142      70        27      993        44          44     118       73        59     128       67       2840

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.949                       0.953                         0.851                      0.784              0.943

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          PREPARED BY NATIONAL DATA & SURVEYING SERVICES
PROJECT#: 13-5664-004
N/S Street: Vermont Ave
E/W Street: 11th St
DATE:        12/11/2013                                       DAY:      Wednesday
CITY:        Los Angeles
    AM
Adult Pedestrians                                             School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                          TIME
               EB    WB  EB   WB    NB      SB   NB      SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  7:00 AM       4     6   1    0     2       2    2       7     7:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:15 AM       8     8  11   11     4       5    9       9     7:15 AM      0     0   0    2     0     0    0       0
  7:30 AM       7    17   8   49     5      12    5      17     7:30 AM      0     0   0    4     0     0    0       0
  7:45 AM      19    22  30   32     4       7   12      10     7:45 AM      0     0   0    2     0     0    0       0
  8:00 AM      10    12   1   11     1       4   10       6     8:00 AM      0     0   2    0     0     0    0       0
  8:15 AM       6     6   3   12     5       7    9       7     8:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:30 AM       2     0   2    0     2       0    4       1     8:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:45 AM       1     1   0    4     6       2    4       3     8:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:00 AM       2     2   2    2     4       3    7       2     9:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:15 AM       5     0   3    3     6       2    3       4     9:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:30 AM       1     1   3    1     1       2    9       2     9:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:45 AM       5     2   2    0     2       2    3       1     9:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  TOTALS       70    77  66  125    42      48   77      69     TOTALS      0      0  2     8     0     0    0      0


    PM
Adult Pedestrians                                             School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                          TIME
               EB   WB   EB   WB    NB      SB    NB     SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  3:00 PM       5    4   17   13    17       4    11     15     3:00 PM      0     0   4    2     0     0    0       0
  3:15 PM      37   16   64   20     5      10    45     30     3:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:30 PM      14    2   12    7     6       4    20     17     3:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:45 PM       8    6   11    5    11       3    13     22     3:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:00 PM      13    3   29    7     5       4    20     14     4:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:15 PM       8    5   11    5     4       2     8     17     4:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:30 PM       4    4   12    3     9       4    14     16     4:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  4:45 PM       6    1    9    8    12       3     9      8     4:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:00 PM       7    6   14   12     3       6    19     11     5:00 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:15 PM       9    9    9    6     3       4    11     20     5:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:30 PM      11    4    8   10     8       7    11      9     5:30 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:45 PM       7   10    8    8    11      11     6     11     5:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
 TOTALS       129 70    204 104     94      62   187    190     TOTALS      0      0  4     2     0     0    0      0
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0           1        1        0        1       1         0

           7:00   AM                   1         0         0        1         0                   0                  0       1         0         3
           7:15   AM                   2         0         0        5         0                   0                  0       0         0         7
           7:30   AM                   5         0         0        5         0                   0                  0       3         0        13
           7:45   AM                   1         0         0        1         1                   1                  1       0         0         5
           8:00   AM                   1         1         1        2         0                   0                  0       0         1         6
           8:15   AM                   1         0         0        5         0                   0                  0       1         0         7
           8:30   AM                   2         0         0        4         0                   0                  1       0         0         7
           8:45   AM                   2         0         0        3         0                   0                  0       0         0         5
           9:00   AM                   2         0         0        3         0                   0                  0       0         0         5
           9:15   AM                   4         0         0        3         0                   0                  0       0         0         7
           9:30   AM                   1         0         0        2         0                   0                  1       0         0         4
           9:45   AM                   2         0         0        1         0                   0                  1       0         0         4

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL      ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        24             1          1      35          1         0       1           0        4       5        1         73
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 96.00%             4.00%      2.70% 94.59%      2.70%     0.00% 100.00%       0.00%    40.00% 50.00%    10.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a    eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       715 AM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           9         1        1        13        1            0       1        0         1       3        1         31

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.500                       0.750                          0.250                      0.417              0.596

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0           1        1        0        1       1         0

           3:00   PM                   2         0         0        3                     0       0                  0       0                   5
           3:15   PM                   0         0         0        0                     0       1                  0       0                   1
           3:30   PM                   1         0         0        1                     0       0                  0       0                   2
           3:45   PM                   2         0         1        0                     0       0                  0       1                   4
           4:00   PM                   3         0         0        0                     0       1                  0       1                   5
           4:15   PM                   4         0         0        5                     2       0                  0       1                  12
           4:30   PM                   4         2         0        8                     0       0                  0       3                  17
           4:45   PM                   6         1         0        2                     0       1                  0       0                  10
           5:00   PM                   2         1         0        5                     0       0                  0       1                   9
           5:15   PM                   5         0         0        1                     0       0                  0       0                   6
           5:30   PM                   3         0         0        3                     1       0                  0       0                   7
           5:45   PM                   3         1         1        2                     0       0                  1       0                   8

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        35             5          2      30          0         3      3            0        1       7        0         86
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 87.50%            12.50%      6.25% 93.75%      0.00%    50.00% 50.00%        0.00%    12.50% 87.50%     0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          13         2        1        11        0            1       0        0         1       1        0         30

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.750                       0.600                          0.250                      0.500              0.833

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                     11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        1        0        1       1         0

           7:00   AM       1           8         0                  4                    0       0         0        0       0         1        14
           7:15   AM       0           7         0                  8                    1       1         0        0       0         0        17
           7:30   AM       0           7         0                  6                    0       0         0        0       1         0        14
           7:45   AM       0           5         0                  6                    1       1         0        1       0         0        14
           8:00   AM       0           5         0                  7                    0       0         0        0       0         0        12
           8:15   AM       0           3         0                  9                    0       0         1        0       0         0        13
           8:30   AM       0           6         0                  4                    0       0         0        0       0         0        10
           8:45   AM       0           4         0                  4                    0       0         0        2       0         0        10
           9:00   AM       3           0         0                  5                    0       0         0        0       0         0         8
           9:15   AM       0           4         0                  5                    0       0         0        0       0         0         9
           9:30   AM       0           4         0                  3                    0       0         0        0       0         0         7
           9:45   AM       0           4         1                  3                    0       0         0        0       0         0         8

                        NL        NT            NR          SL      ST        SR        EL     ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      4        57             1          0       64         0         2      2           1        3       1        1        136
     APPROACH %'s :    6.45% 91.94%             1.61%      0.00% 100.00%     0.00%    40.00% 40.00%      20.00%    60.00% 20.00%    20.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a     sb d                eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       715 AM                                                                                                             TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          24         0         0       27        0           2       2        0         1       1        0         57

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.857                       0.844                         0.500                      0.500              0.838

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                      11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0           1        1        0        1       1         0

           3:00   PM       0           7         0                 4          0           0       0                  0       0         0        11
           3:15   PM       0           6         1                 5          0           0       0                  0       0         0        12
           3:30   PM       0           7         0                 4          0           0       0                  0       0         0        11
           3:45   PM       1           9         0                 10         0           1       0                  1       0         0        22
           4:00   PM       1           5         1                 11         0           0       1                  1       1         1        22
           4:15   PM       1           4         0                 14         0           1       1                  0       0         1        22
           4:30   PM       0           4         0                 6          1           1       0                  0       0         0        12
           4:45   PM       1           6         0                 7          0           0       0                  0       0         0        14
           5:00   PM       0           6         0                 3          0           0       0                  1       0         0        10
           5:15   PM       0           5         0                 6          0           0       0                  0       0         0        11
           5:30   PM       0           5         0                 7          0           0       1                  0       0         0        13
           5:45   PM       0           4         0                 2          0           0       0                  0       0         0         6

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      4        68             2          0      79          1         3      3            0        3       1        2        166
     APPROACH %'s :    5.41% 91.89%             2.70%      0.00% 98.75%      1.25%    50.00% 50.00%        0.00%    50.00% 16.67%    33.33%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          20         0        0        18        0            0       1        0         1       0        0         40

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.833                       0.643                          0.250                      0.250              0.769

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                          Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        1        0        1       1         0

           7:00   AM       0           13        0                  3         0        1       1                  0       0         0        18
           7:15   AM       2           9         0                  2         0        0       0                  0       0         1        14
           7:30   AM       0           7         1                  4         0        0       0                  0       0         0        12
           7:45   AM       0           6         0                  4         0        1       0                  0       0         0        11
           8:00   AM       0           5         1                  1         0        0       0                  1       0         0         8
           8:15   AM       0           6         0                  8         1        0       0                  0       0         0        15
           8:30   AM       0           7         0                  3         0        0       0                  0       1         0        11
           8:45   AM       1           7         0                  4         0        1       0                  0       0         0        13
           9:00   AM       0           6         0                  1         0        0       0                  0       0         0         7
           9:15   AM       0           9         0                  7         0        1       0                  0       0         0        17
           9:30   AM       0           6         0                  6         0        0       0                  0       0         0        12
           9:45   AM       1           8         0                  9         1        0       1                  0       0         0        20

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      4        89             2          0      52          2         4      2         0        1       1        1        158
     APPROACH %'s :    4.21% 93.68%             2.11%      0.00% 96.30%      3.70%    66.67% 33.33%     0.00%    33.33% 33.33%    33.33%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       715 AM                                                                                                           TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        2          27         2        0        11        0         1       0        0         1       0        1         45

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.705                       0.688                       0.250                      0.500              0.804

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-004                                                                                          Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                   11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        1        0        1       1         0

           3:00   PM                   2         0         0        5         0                0         0                                   7
           3:15   PM                   2         0         0        3         0                0         0                                   5
           3:30   PM                   1         0         0        4         1                0         1                                   7
           3:45   PM                   0         0         0        4         0                0         0                                   4
           4:00   PM                   2         0         0        3         1                0         0                                   6
           4:15   PM                   3         0         0        3         0                0         0                                   6
           4:30   PM                   4         0         0        2         1                0         0                                   7
           4:45   PM                   3         0         0        3         0                0         0                                   6
           5:00   PM                   2         0         0        3         0                0         0                                   5
           5:15   PM                   2         1         1        3         0                0         1                                   8
           5:30   PM                   1         0         0        2         0                0         0                                   3
           5:45   PM                   2         0         0        1         0                1         0                                   4

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET        ER       WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        24             1          1      36          3         0      1         2       0       0         0         68
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 96.00%             4.00%      2.50% 90.00%      7.50%     0.00% 33.33%    66.67%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                           TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           7         1        1        9         0         0       1        1          0      0        0         20

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.667                       0.625                       0.500                      0.000              0.625

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          City Of Los Angeles
                          Department Of Transportation
                          MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT SUMMARY
STREET:
North/South               Vermont Ave

East/West                 Pico Blvd

Day:                      Wednesday               Date:        December 11, 2013                  Weather:             SUNNY

Hours:        7-10 & 3-6                                                      Chekrs:             NDS

School Day:               YES                     District:                                         I/S CODE


                                  N/B                          S/B                                   E/B                         W/B
DUAL-
WHEELED                           102                           80                                      40                        50
BIKES                              80                           98                                      76                        63
BUSES                             135                          151                                      67                        63


                                  N/B   TIME                   S/B    TIME                           E/B     TIME                W/B    TIME

AM PK 15 MIN                      382    8.30                  328     7.45                          287      7.45               217     7.30

PM PK 15 MIN                      343   17.30                  313    17.15                          229     17.00               225    17.30

AM PK HOUR                      1391     7.15                 1266     7.15                         1044      7.30               816     7.15

PM PK HOUR                      1320    16.45                 1208    17.00                          901     16.30               858    17.00




NORTHBOUND Approach                                                  SOUTHBOUND Approach                                               TOTAL    XING S/L       XING N/L

Hours           Lt           Th         Rt        Total              Hours              Lt          Th       Rt        Total            N-S      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  84       1241           38     1363             7-8                     73     1110          76     1259            2622    125     0      234     3
8-9                  58       1265           61     1384             8-9                     60     1019          72     1151            2535    124     0      128     0
9-10                 58       1133           76     1267             9-10                    54      842          65       961           2228    107     0       92     3
15-16                69       1018           76     1163             15-16                   76     1035          82     1193            2356    230     0      261     4
16-17                60       1126           74     1260             16-17                   63     1031          81     1175            2435    235     2      218     4
17-18                67       1184           67     1318             17-18                   71     1064          73     1208            2526    254     0      166     2

TOTAL            396            6967     392         7755            TOTAL               397        6101       449       6947           14702   1075       2   1099   16


EASTBOUND Approach                                                   WESTBOUND Approach                                                TOTAL    XING W/L       XING E/L

Hours           Lt           Th         Rt Total                     Hours              Lt          Th       Rt        Total            E-W      Ped   Sch      Ped   Sch
7-8                  70           661    122   853                   7-8                     61      693        54         808           1661    124     0      169     3
8-9                  67           756     77   900                   8-9                     43      589        72         704           1604     96     0      147     2
9-10                 75           504     64   643                   9-10                    53      452        89         594           1237     83     0       95     1
15-16                73           623    105   801                   15-16                   64      502        90         656           1457    142     0      206     2
16-17                78           693     85   856                   16-17                   64      616        85         765           1621    181     0      182     5
17-18                79           676    116   871                   17-18                   57      699       102         858           1729    133     0      231     3

TOTAL            442            3913     569         4924            TOTAL               342        3551       492       4385           9309     759       0   1030   16
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                           Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                       Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                  Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        2         0        1       2          0

           7:00   AM       23         283        9        15      273        21        14     106        23        20     149        13       949
           7:15   AM       30         323        11       20      264        16        17     119        28        14     167        14      1023
           7:30   AM       14         341        6        17      283        22        20     210        29        15     186        16      1159
           7:45   AM       17         294        12       21      290        17        19     226        42        12     191        11      1152
           8:00   AM       14         312        17       17      277        22        17     205        25        10     161        19      1096
           8:15   AM       15         285        11       17      271        10        21     208        22        13     145        20      1038
           8:30   AM       15         348        19       13      245        23        12     174        15        9      148        15      1036
           8:45   AM       14         320        14       13      226        17        17     169        15        11     135        18       969
           9:00   AM       14         294        23       11      220        14        15     164        27        14     127        24       947
           9:15   AM       12         276        16       13      207        17        12     129        12        10     110        29       843
           9:30   AM       17         293        18       12      209        18        23     100        12        16     117        25       860
           9:45   AM       15         270        19       18      206        16        25     111        13        13      98        11       815

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET         ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    200      3639            175        187    2971       213        212   1921       263       157    1734       215     11887
     APPROACH %'s :    4.98% 90.66%             4.36%      5.55% 88.13%      6.32%     8.85% 80.18%     10.98%     7.45% 82.34%     10.21%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                 wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                             TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       60          1232      46        72      1121       71        77     849       118        50     683        66      4445

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.927                       0.963                       0.909                       0.921              0.959

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                           Day: Wednesday
                                                                               TOTALS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                       Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                  Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        2         0        1       2          0

           3:00   PM       14         238       28        21      253        23        19     164        27        14     137        23       961
           3:15   PM       19         241       18        23      264        17        17     162        25        18     125        27       956
           3:30   PM       18         255       11        16      278        16        19     157        28        17     130        22       967
           3:45   PM       18         284       19        16      240        26        18     140        25        15     110        18       929
           4:00   PM       15         281       30        10      271        23        22     171        12        18     159        19      1031
           4:15   PM       14         266       15        18      257        14        14     157        24        18     141        29       967
           4:30   PM       12         283       13        18      256        23        20     181        27        13     155        19      1020
           4:45   PM       19         296       16        17      247        21        22     184        22        15     161        18      1038
           5:00   PM       16         302       21        15      261        26        21     174        34        12     162        31      1075
           5:15   PM       15         279       13        23      279        11        16     177        23        12     178        19      1045
           5:30   PM       20         303       20        19      261        19        22     171        28        16     185        24      1088
           5:45   PM       16         300       13        14      263        17        20     154        31        17     174        28      1047

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET         ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    196      3328            217        210    3130       236        230   1992       306       185    1817       277     12124
     APPROACH %'s :    5.24% 88.96%             5.80%      5.87% 87.53%      6.60%     9.10% 78.80%     12.10%     8.12% 79.73%     12.15%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                 wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                             TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       67          1184      67        71      1064       73        79     676       116        57     699       102      4255

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.961                       0.965                       0.951                       0.953              0.978

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                    Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        2         0        1       2          0

           7:00   AM       23         263        9        15      267        20          12     102        23        20     145        13       912
           7:15   AM       30         307        11       20      255        16          17     115        28        12     162        14       987
           7:30   AM       12         328        6        17      275        22          20     207        29        15     182        15      1128
           7:45   AM       17         284        11       21      278        17          19     218        42        11     186        11      1115
           8:00   AM       14         302        17       17      268        22          17     204        24        9      157        19      1070
           8:15   AM       14         279        11       17      256        10          21     203        22        10     139        18      1000
           8:30   AM       14         337        18       13      238        22          12     170        15        9      145        14      1007
           8:45   AM       14         310        14       13      217        17          17     166        15        11     133        17       944
           9:00   AM       13         287        23       11      214        14          15     161        27        14     123        24       926
           9:15   AM       10         265        16       13      196        16          11     125        12        10     102        27       803
           9:30   AM       17         285        17       12      201        18          22      97        12        15     111        24       831
           9:45   AM       15         259        18       15      194        16          24     107        13        12      95        10       778

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET           ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    193      3506            171        184    2859       210        207   1875         262       148    1680       206     11501
     APPROACH %'s :    4.99% 90.59%             4.42%      5.66% 87.89%      6.46%     8.83% 79.99%       11.18%     7.28% 82.60%     10.13%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                               TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       57          1193      45        72      1077       71          77     832       117        45     664        63      4313

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.936                       0.965                         0.919                       0.910              0.956

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  CARS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Vermont Ave                    Vermont Ave                    Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                                NORTHBOUND                     SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        2         0        1       2          0

           3:00   PM       14         230       28        21      244        23          19     160        27        14     136        23       939
           3:15   PM       19         231       18        23      255        17          17     158        25        18     122        27       930
           3:30   PM       18         247       11        16      271        15          19     153        28        16     126        22       942
           3:45   PM       17         276       19        15      228        25          16     134        23        15     105        18       891
           4:00   PM       15         271       29        10      257        23          22     168        12        17     157        19      1000
           4:15   PM       14         258       15        16      244        14          14     153        24        18     138        29       937
           4:30   PM       12         276       13        17      247        23          20     174        27        13     153        18       993
           4:45   PM       19         288       16        17      240        20          22     179        22        14     159        18      1014
           5:00   PM       16         296       21        15      254        26          21     171        33        12     159        31      1055
           5:15   PM       15         272       13        23      271        11          16     174        23        12     174        19      1023
           5:30   PM       20         298       20        19      253        19          22     166        28        15     182        24      1066
           5:45   PM       16         294       13        14      261        16          20     152        31        17     171        27      1032

                        NL       NT             NR          SL     ST         SR         EL    ET           ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :    195      3237            216        206    3025       232        228   1942         303       181    1782       275     11822
     APPROACH %'s :    5.35% 88.73%             5.92%      5.95% 87.35%      6.70%     9.22% 78.53%       12.25%     8.09% 79.62%     12.29%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                               TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       67          1160      67        71      1039       72          79     663       115        56     686       101      4176

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.957                       0.969                         0.952                       0.954              0.979

         CONTROL : Signalized
                          PREPARED BY NATIONAL DATA & SURVEYING SERVICES
PROJECT#: 13-5664-005
N/S Street: Vermont Ave
E/W Street: Pico Blvd
DATE:        12/11/2013                                        DAY:      Wednesday
CITY:        Los Angeles
    AM
Adult Pedestrians                                              School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG    EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                           TIME
               EB    WB  EB   WB     NB      SB    NB     SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  7:00 AM      12    10  14   12     20      18    11      8     7:00 AM      0     1   0    0     0     2    0       0
  7:15 AM      22    18  17   10     21       8    22      8     7:15 AM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:30 AM      21    68  10   27     42       9    27      4     7:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  7:45 AM      24    59  14   21     42       9    27     17     7:45 AM      1     0   0    0     1     0    0       0
  8:00 AM      14    27  23    8     30      19    10     19     8:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:15 AM      24    15  15   19     27      21    15      6     8:15 AM      0     0   0    0     1     1    0       0
  8:30 AM      14     8  12   12     13      14    11     11     8:30 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  8:45 AM      10    16  21   14     17       6    14     10     8:45 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:00 AM      11     6  15    9     17      12     7     11     9:00 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:15 AM      11    14   7   11     10       4    12      9     9:15 AM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  9:30 AM      11    11   6   16     14      12     9      7     9:30 AM      0     0   0    0     1     0    0       0
  9:45 AM      18    10  22   21     10      16    23      5     9:45 AM      0     3   0    0     0     0    0       0
  TOTALS      192 262 176 180       263     148   188    115     TOTALS      2      4  0     0     3     3    0      0


    PM
Adult Pedestrians                                              School-Aged Pedestrians
              NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG    EAST   LEG   WEST   LEG                NORTH LEG SOUTH LEG   EAST LEG   WEST   LEG
   TIME                                                           TIME
               EB   WB   EB   WB     NB      SB    NB     SB                 EB    WB  EB   WB    NB    SB   NB      SB
  3:00 PM      14   26   30   21     14      16    10     29     3:00 PM      1     2   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:15 PM      97   20   55   25     30      48    10     38     3:15 PM      0     1   0    0     0     0    0       0
  3:30 PM      26   20   18   27     37      17    12     11     3:30 PM      0     0   0    0     1     0    0       0
  3:45 PM      32   26   31   23     26      18    20     12     3:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     1    0       0
  4:00 PM      29   21   29   27     28      19    31     19     4:00 PM      0     0   1    0     1     0    0       0
  4:15 PM      46   20   40   14     24      18    24     22     4:15 PM      2     1   0    0     0     2    0       0
  4:30 PM      42   16   44   27     19      23    30     22     4:30 PM      0     0   0    1     1     1    0       0
  4:45 PM      27   17   29   25     31      20    23     10     4:45 PM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:00 PM      19   14   38   21     33      27    19     11     5:00 PM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:15 PM      25   16   42   22     36      23    22     17     5:15 PM      0     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:30 PM      26   16   33   31     27      23    13     17     5:30 PM      1     0   0    0     0     0    0       0
  5:45 PM      21   29   34   33     36      26    15     19     5:45 PM      0     0   0    0     0     3    0       0
 TOTALS       404 241 423 296       341     278   229    227     TOTALS      6      4  1     1     3     7    0      0
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                               Day: Wednesday
                                                                                   BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                           Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                      Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR           EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2          0           1        2         0        1       2          0

           7:00   AM       0           2         0        1         4          0           0       2          0        0       0          1       10
           7:15   AM       0           1         0        1         1          2           0       0          1        0       2          0        8
           7:30   AM       0           4         0        0         3          1           0       3          1        0       1          1       14
           7:45   AM       2           1         0        0         2          1           1       3          0        0       1          0       11
           8:00   AM       1           2         0        0         0          2           0       3          1        1       5          0       15
           8:15   AM       1           2         0        1         3          0           0       2          1        0       2          1       13
           8:30   AM       0           3         0        1         5          0           0       0          0        0       2          0       11
           8:45   AM       0           3         3        1         2          0           1       2          0        1       0          0       13
           9:00   AM       0           3         0        1         3          0           1       3          0        0       0          0       11
           9:15   AM       0           4         0        0         2          0           1       1          0        0       1          0        9
           9:30   AM       0           4         0        0         4          1           0       1          1        1       0          0       12
           9:45   AM       1           2         0        0         3          0           0       2          0        0       2          0       10

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST           SR        EL     ET            ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      5        31             3          6     32            7         4     22             5        3      16         3       137
     APPROACH %'s :   12.82% 79.49%             7.69%    13.33% 71.11%       15.56%    12.90% 70.97%        16.13%    13.64% 72.73%     13.64%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                   eb a   eb d                    wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       730 AM                                                                                                                TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        4           9         0        1        8          4            1      11         3         1       9         2        53

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.813                       0.813                           0.938                       0.500              0.883

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                              Day: Wednesday
                                                                                   BIKES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                          Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                    PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                      Pico Blvd                  Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                       EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2          0           1        2        0        1       2         0

           3:00   PM       0           2         0        0         0          1           0       0         0        0       1         1         5
           3:15   PM       0           2         0        3         5          2           0       4         1        0       3         0        20
           3:30   PM       0           1         0        0         1          0           0       1         0        0       1         0         4
           3:45   PM       0           1         0        1         2          0           0       2         0        0       4         0        10
           4:00   PM       0           2         0        0         2          0           0       3         0        0       3         0        10
           4:15   PM       0           1         0        1         3          1           2       2         0        1       4         1        16
           4:30   PM       1           3         1        0         4          1           2       5         0        0       4         1        22
           4:45   PM       1           7         0        1         4          2           2       6         0        0       3         0        26
           5:00   PM       0           5         0        0         6          0           1       4         0        0       2         0        18
           5:15   PM       0           5         0        3         2          1           2       2         0        0       0         0        15
           5:30   PM       0           5         0        1         4          0           0       2         0        3       2         0        17
           5:45   PM       1           3         0        0         2          0           0       4         0        1       5         1        17

                        NL        NT            NR         SL     ST           SR        EL     ET           ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      3        37             1         10     35            8         9     35            1        5      32        4        180
     APPROACH %'s :    7.32% 90.24%             2.44%    18.87% 66.04%       15.09%    20.00% 77.78%        2.22%    12.20% 78.05%     9.76%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a   sb d                   eb a   eb d                   wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                               TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        1          18         0        4        14         1            3      12        0         4       9        1         67

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.950                       0.792                           0.750                      0.500              0.931

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                             Day: Wednesday
                                                                                  BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                         Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                     Pico Blvd                  Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                      EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR           EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0           1        2        0        1       2         0

           7:00   AM       0           9         0                  4         1                   3                  0       4         0        21
           7:15   AM       0           7         0                  7         0                   4                  1       3         0        22
           7:30   AM       1           6         0                  6         0                   2                  0       3         0        18
           7:45   AM       0           5         1                  8         0                   6                  1       3         0        24
           8:00   AM       0           5         0                  7         0                   1                  0       3         0        16
           8:15   AM       0           3         0                  9         0                   4                  2       2         0        20
           8:30   AM       0           7         0                  5         0                   2                  0       1         0        15
           8:45   AM       0           3         0                  6         0                   1                  0       0         0        10
           9:00   AM       0           3         0                  5         0                   3                  0       1         0        12
           9:15   AM       0           3         0                  4         0                   2                  0       2         1        12
           9:30   AM       0           4         0                  3         0                   0                  0       2         0         9
           9:45   AM       0           4         0                  4         0                   3                  0       2         1        14

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL      ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      1        59             1          0      68          1         0      31           0        4      26        2        193
     APPROACH %'s :    1.64% 96.72%             1.64%      0.00% 98.55%      1.45%     0.00% 100.00%       0.00%    12.50% 81.25%     6.25%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a    eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       730 AM                                                                                                              TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        1          19         1        0        30        0            0      13        0         3      11        0         78

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.750                       0.833                          0.542                      0.875              0.813

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                                 BUSES
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                    Pico Blvd                  Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                     EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR          EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0          1        2        0        1       2         0

           3:00   PM       0           7         0         0       4                     0       3         0        0       1                  15
           3:15   PM       0           7         0         0       5                     0       3         0        0       3                  18
           3:30   PM       0           7         0         0       4                     0       3         0        1       3                  18
           3:45   PM       1           8         0         1       10                    2       1         1        0       3                  27
           4:00   PM       0           8         1         0       12                    0       2         0        1       2                  26
           4:15   PM       0           5         0         2       10                    0       3         0        0       3                  23
           4:30   PM       0           5         0         0       8                     0       4         0        0       2                  19
           4:45   PM       0           6         0         0       6                     0       4         0        0       2                  18
           5:00   PM       0           5         0         0       4                     0       3         0        0       3                  15
           5:15   PM       0           5         0         0       7                     0       2         0        0       3                  17
           5:30   PM       0           5         0         0       7                     0       3         0        0       2                  17
           5:45   PM       0           4         0         0       2                     0       2         0        0       2                  10

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET          ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      1        72             1          3      79          0         2     33           1        2      29        0        223
     APPROACH %'s :    1.35% 97.30%             1.35%      3.66% 96.34%      0.00%     5.56% 91.67%       2.78%     6.45% 93.55%     0.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                  wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                             TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0          19         0        0        20        0           0      10        0         0      10        0         59

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.950                       0.714                         0.833                      0.833              0.868

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                          Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                  Pico Blvd                  Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST        SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2         0        1        2        0        1       2          0

           7:00   AM       0           11        0         0        2         0        2       1         0        0       0          0       16
           7:15   AM       0           9         0         0        2         0        0       0         0        1       2          0       14
           7:30   AM       1           7         0         0        2         0        0       1         0        0       1          1       13
           7:45   AM       0           5         0         0        4         0        0       2         0        0       2          0       13
           8:00   AM       0           5         0         0        2         0        0       0         1        1       1          0       10
           8:15   AM       1           3         0         0        6         0        0       1         0        1       4          2       18
           8:30   AM       1           4         1         0        2         1        0       2         0        0       2          1       14
           8:45   AM       0           7         0         0        3         0        0       2         0        0       2          1       15
           9:00   AM       1           4         0         0        1         0        0       0         0        0       3          0        9
           9:15   AM       2           8         0         0        7         1        1       2         0        0       6          1       28
           9:30   AM       0           4         1         0        5         0        1       3         0        1       4          1       20
           9:45   AM       0           7         1         3        8         0        1       1         0        1       1          0       23

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST         SR        EL     ET        ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      6        74             3          3      44          2         5     15         1        5      28         7       193
     APPROACH %'s :    7.23% 89.16%             3.61%      6.12% 89.80%      4.08%    23.81% 71.43%     4.76%    12.50% 70.00%     17.50%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                 eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       730 AM                                                                                                           TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        2          20         0        0        14        0         0       4        1         2       8         3        54

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.688                       0.583                       0.625                      0.464              0.750

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-005                                                                                            Day: Wednesday
                                                                          HEAVY TRUCKS
                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                        Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                   PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Vermont Ave                     Vermont Ave                   Pico Blvd                   Pico Blvd
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                   WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL       ST         SR        EL      ET        ER        WL     WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:               1             2        0        1         2          0        1        2         0        1       2          0

           3:00   PM                   1                   0        5          0                1          0        0       0          0        7
           3:15   PM                   3                   0        4          0                1          0        0       0          0        8
           3:30   PM                   1                   0        3          1                1          0        0       1          0        7
           3:45   PM                   0                   0        2          1                5          1        0       2          0       11
           4:00   PM                   2                   0        2          0                1          0        0       0          0        5
           4:15   PM                   3                   0        3          0                1          0        0       0          0        7
           4:30   PM                   2                   1        1          0                3          0        0       0          1        8
           4:45   PM                   2                   0        1          1                1          0        1       0          0        6
           5:00   PM                   1                   0        3          0                0          1        0       0          0        5
           5:15   PM                   2                   0        1          0                1          0        0       1          0        5
           5:30   PM                   0                   0        1          0                2          0        1       1          0        5
           5:45   PM                   2                   0        0          1                0          0        0       1          1        5

                        NL        NT            NR          SL     ST          SR        EL     ET         ER       WL      WT        WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :      0        19             0          1      26           4         0     17          2        2       6         2        79
     APPROACH %'s :    0.00% 100.00%            0.00%      3.23% 83.87%      12.90%     0.00% 89.47%     10.53%    20.00% 60.00%     20.00%
                     nb a      nb d                     sb a    sb d                  eb a   eb d                 wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :       500 PM                                                                                                             TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :        0           5         0        0        5          1         0       3         1         1       3         1        20

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.625                       0.500                        0.500                       0.625              1.000

         CONTROL : Signalized
                                     APPENDIX C
                             LADOT CMA Calculation Worksheets




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                        APPENDIX D
                           Pedestrian Routes - Berendo Middle School




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
APPENDIX D




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
                                   APPENDIX E
                   MUTCD Peak Hour Traffic Signal Warrant Worksheets




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
California MUTCD 2012 Edition                                                                                                                    Page 846
(FWHA's MUTCD 2009 Edition, as amended for use in California)

 INTERSECTION:                 11th Street & Berendo Street                                                              Scenario: Future with Project

                     Figure 4C-101 (CA). Traffic Signal Warrants Worksheets (Sheet 2 of 4)


 WARRANT 2 - Four Hour Vehicular Volume                                                            SATISFIED*                YES          NO X
      Record hourly vehicular volumes for any four hours of an average day.

                                                                  2 or



   NOT ANALYZED
                 APPROACH LANES                          One      More                                            Hour




                                                                                 0



                                                                                           0



                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                             0
      Both Approaches - Major Street                       x                0         0        0         0
      Higher Approach - Minor Street                       x                 0         0       0         0


      *All plotted points fall above the curves in Figure 4C-1. (Urban Areas)                                                   YES         NO

      OR, All plotted points fall above the curves in Figure 4C-2. (Rural Areas)                                                YES         NO X




 WARRANT 3 - Peak Hour                                                                                 SATISFIED             YES          NO X
 (Part A or Part B must be satisfied)

 PART A                                                                                                 SATISFIED             YES          NO X

(All parts 1, 2, and 3 below must be satisfied for the same one hour, for any four consecutive 15-minute periods)
    The total delay experienced by traffic on one minor street approach (one direction only)
  1 controlled by a STOP sign equals or exceeds four vehicle-hours for a one-lane                                       YES                NO X
    approach, or five vehicle-hours for a two-lane approach; AND                           9.2 seconds in delay & 0.43 vehicle-hours of delay

      The volume on the same minor street approach (one direction only) equals or exceeds
  2                                                                                                                             YES X       NO
      100 vph for one moving lane of traffic or 150 vph for two moving lanes; AND

    The total entering volume serviced during the hour equals or exceeds 800 vph
  3 for intersections with four or more approaches or 650 vph for intersections with                                            YES         NO X
    three approaches.




 PART B                                                                                                 SATISFIED             YES          NO X
                                                                                       ak
                                                                             ak




                                                                  2 or
                                                                                          e
                                                                               e

                                                                                     pm p
                                                                           am p




                 APPROACH LANES                          One      More
      Both Approaches - Major Street                       x               370       445
      Higher Approach - Minor Street                       x               165       141


      The plotted point falls above the curve in Figure 4C-3. (Urban Areas)                                                     YES         NO X

      OR, The plotted point falls above the curve in Figure 4C-4. (Rural Areas)                                                 YES         NO


 The satisfaction of a traffic signal warrant or warrants shall not in itself require the installation of a traffic control signal.




Chapter 4C - Traffic Control Signal Needs Studies
Part 4 - Highway Traffic Signals                                                                                                         January 13, 2012
                                                                                          11th Street & Berendo Street
                                                                                AM(PM) Peak hour Traffic Signal Warrant Based on
                                                                            California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2012
                                                                                          Scenario: Future With Project


                                700

                                                                                  2 or More Lanes & 2 or More Lanes
                                600
                                                                                                  2 or More Lanes & 1 Lane
 HIGHER VOLUME APPROACH - VPH




                                500                                                                        1 Lane & 1 Lane
         MINOR STREET




                                400


                                300
                                            AM Peak
                                            370,165

                                200
                                                                                                                                                                                        *150
                                                      PM Peak
                                100                   445,141                                                                                                                           *100



                                  0
                                      400    500        600         700         800         900        1000       1100        1200        1300        1400        1500    1600   1700   1800

                                                                                      MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES -
                                                                                               VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)
                                                                *Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor-street approach with two or more lanes
                                                                     and 100 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor-street approach with one lane.


LEGEND
   11th Street - 1 Lane(s) Major Street: 370 (445) VPH
   Berendo Street - 1 Lane(s) Minor Street: 165 (141) VPH                                                                                          Peak Hour Volumes Satisfy Warrants? NO
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-006                                                                                          Day: Wednesday

                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  AM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                    11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0        0        1        0        0       1         0

           7:00   AM       1           8         3        5        17         2        5       16       4         6       16       6        89
           7:15   AM       2           9         8        3        14         5        4       11       3         8       21       10       98
           7:30   AM       2           26        15       3        30         4        3       22       10        12      20       10       157
           7:45   AM       2           31        23       8        37         4        3       20       20        26      23       18       215
           8:00   AM       2           26        6        12       27         3        0       24       13        6       26       12       157
           8:15   AM       5           19        6        6        13         2        5       23       3         8       12       15       117
           8:30   AM       1           14        6        2        5          3        2       18       2         2       16       18       89
           8:45   AM       3           15        5        8        13         3        1       9        2         3       19       18       99

                        NL       NT             NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :      18      148              72        47     156         26        23     143       57        71    153       107       1021
    APPROACH %'s :     7.56% 62.18%            30.25%    20.52% 68.12%      11.35%    10.31% 64.13%    25.56%    21.45% 46.22%    32.33%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      730 AM                                                                                                            TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       11          102       50        29      107        13        11     89        46        52     81        55       646

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.728                      0.760                        0.849                      0.701              0.751

         CONTROL : 4-Way Stop
                                      Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                 Prepared by:
                                              National Data & Surveying Services
         Project ID: 13-5664-006                                                                                          Day: Wednesday

                  City: Los Angeles                                                                                      Date: 12/11/2013
                                                                                  PM
     NS/EW Streets:             Berendo St                     Berendo St                    11th St                    11th St
                               NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                   EASTBOUND                  WESTBOUND

                          NL           NT       NR        SL      ST         SR        EL      ET       ER        WL     WT        WR       TOTAL
     LANES:               0             1        0        0        1          0        0        1        0        0       1         0

           4:00   PM       2           21        8        6       26         13        2       31        6        5       36       13       169
           4:15   PM       4           19        9        14      23         3         5       22        5        7       26       18       155
           4:30   PM       1           15        6        13      23         3         8       22        3        4       38       15       151
           4:45   PM       5           20        5        6       17         6         4       22        6        6       48       12       157
           5:00   PM       6           26        6        15      18         5         4       28        7        4       36       16       171
           5:15   PM       2           28        3        11      26         5         2       32        8        7       33       15       172
           5:30   PM       2           21        9        10      14         1         3       41        7        3       42       26       179
           5:45   PM       6           21        7        12      14         6         5       42        5        3       42       22       185

                        NL       NT             NR         SL     ST          SR        EL     ET        ER       WL      WT       WR       TOTAL
   TOTAL VOLUMES :      28      171              53        87     161         42        33     240       47        39    301       137       1339
    APPROACH %'s :    11.11% 67.86%            21.03%    30.00% 55.52%      14.48%    10.31% 75.00%    14.69%     8.18% 63.10%    28.72%
                     nb a     nb d                      sb a   sb d                  eb a   eb d                wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      500 PM                                                                                                            TOTAL

      PEAK HR VOL :       16          96        25        48      72         17        14     143       27        17     153       79       707

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                   0.901                      0.815                        0.885                      0.877              0.955

         CONTROL : 4-Way Stop
Fut Post Project AM            Thu Jan 23, 2014 15:13:08                    Page 12-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)
                            Future Post-Project Conditions
                                     AM Peak Hour
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #6 Berendo St & 11th St [PK HR Warrant]
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):             0.302
Loss Time (sec):          0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):              9.4
Optimal Cycle:            0                 Level Of Service:                       A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:                Berendo St                           11th St
Approach:       North Bound         South Bound       East Bound          West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R           L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign           Stop Sign        Stop Sign           Stop Sign
Rights:             Include            Include           Include             Include
Min. Green:      0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Lanes:         0 0 1! 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:       11 102        50    29 107      13   11    89     46     52    81      55
Growth Adj: 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01
Initial Bse:    11 103        51    29 108      13   11    90     46     53    82      56
Added Vol:       0     0       0     0   13      0    0     0      8     24     0       0
PasserByVol:     0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Initial Fut:    11 103        51    29 121      13   11    90     54     77    82      56
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     11 103        51    29 121      13   11    90     54     77    82      56
Reduct Vol:      0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Reduced Vol:    11 103        51    29 121      13   11    90     54     77    82      56
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    11 103        51    29 121      13   11    90     54     77    82      56
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        0.07 0.62 0.31 0.18 0.74 0.08 0.07 0.58 0.35 0.36 0.38 0.26
Final Sat.:     47 436       214   122 502      54   50 408      247   254 271        184
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.24 0.24 0.24 0.24 0.24 0.24 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.30 0.30 0.30
Crit Moves:         ****               ****        ****                      ****
Delay/Veh:     9.2 9.2       9.2   9.4 9.4     9.4  9.0 9.0      9.0   9.7 9.7        9.7
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    9.2 9.2       9.2   9.4 9.4     9.4  9.0 9.0      9.0   9.7 9.7        9.7
LOS by Move:     A     A       A     A    A      A    A     A      A      A     A       A
ApproachDel:         9.2                9.4               9.0                 9.7
Delay Adj:          1.00               1.00              1.00                1.00
ApprAdjDel:          9.2                9.4               9.0                 9.7
LOS by Appr:           A                  A                 A                   A
AllWayAvgQ:    0.3 0.3       0.3   0.3 0.3     0.3  0.2 0.2      0.2   0.4 0.4        0.4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to KOA CORP, MONTEREY PK
Fut Post Project PM            Thu Jan 23, 2014 15:14:08                    Page 12-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)
                            Future Post-Project Conditions
                                     PM Peak Hour
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #6 Berendo St & 11th St [PK HR Warrant]
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):           100                  Critical Vol./Cap.(X):             0.351
Loss Time (sec):          0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):              9.6
Optimal Cycle:            0                 Level Of Service:                       A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:                Berendo St                           11th St
Approach:       North Bound         South Bound       East Bound          West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R           L - T - R        L - T - R          L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign           Stop Sign        Stop Sign           Stop Sign
Rights:             Include            Include           Include             Include
Min. Green:      0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Lanes:         0 0 1! 0 0          0 0 1! 0 0       0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:       16    96      25    48   72     17   14 143       27     17 153        79
Growth Adj: 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01
Initial Bse:    16    97      25    48   73     17   14 144       27     17 155        80
Added Vol:       0     0       0     0    3      0    0     0      2      6     0       0
PasserByVol:     0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Initial Fut:    16    97      25    48   76     17   14 144       29     23 155        80
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     16    97      25    48   76     17   14 144       29     23 155        80
Reduct Vol:      0     0       0     0    0      0    0     0      0      0     0       0
Reduced Vol:    16    97      25    48   76     17   14 144       29     23 155        80
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    16    97      25    48   76     17   14 144       29     23 155        80
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        0.12 0.70 0.18 0.34 0.54 0.12 0.07 0.77 0.16 0.09 0.60 0.31
Final Sat.:     77 461       120   223 348      79   53 541      110     66 441       228
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.21 0.21 0.21 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.27 0.27 0.27 0.35 0.35 0.35
Crit Moves: ****                             ****        ****                ****
Delay/Veh:     9.3 9.3       9.3   9.4 9.4     9.4  9.5 9.5      9.5 10.0 10.0 10.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    9.3 9.3       9.3   9.4 9.4     9.4  9.5 9.5      9.5 10.0 10.0 10.0
LOS by Move:     A     A       A     A    A      A    A     A      A      A     A       A
ApproachDel:         9.3                9.4               9.5                10.0
Delay Adj:          1.00               1.00              1.00                1.00
ApprAdjDel:          9.3                9.4               9.5                10.0
LOS by Appr:           A                  A                 A                   A
AllWayAvgQ:    0.2 0.2       0.2   0.2 0.2     0.2  0.3 0.3      0.3   0.5 0.5        0.5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to KOA CORP, MONTEREY PK
                                          APPENDIX F
                            Project Site Figure with Queued Vehicles




Prepared for YPI Charter Schools, Inc.                                  Appendices
Traffic Impact Study for Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter School (MORCS)      JB31104
May 7, 2014
